Residents in East Sussex say plans for a food waste handling site are "in the wrong place" and have called a meeting to "stop the slops".Lewes District Council (LDC) approved plans for a satellite food waste depot on Lewes Road, Newhaven, last month despite concerns about it attracting vermin.LDC said no food waste would be processed at the site and it was intended for the transfer of waste short-term. Sean Macleod, LDC councillor for Newhaven North, who is against the plans, said: "It is right by a playground and it's going to be smelly." 
Mr Macleod told the BBC: "It is in too much of a residential area and there is a real risk of increased vermin and a nuisance to neighbours. "The lack of consultation has been appalling and I want them to look at other viable sites in the district." 
Jo Pettitt, a co-founder of Stop the Slops and who organised the meeting, said: "They could have up to 15 deliveries a day when these sealed containers will be opened. "Only the little crescent of homes north of the site were sent letters, everyone else found out second-hand a few days before the planning meeting." Ms Pettitt said the situation "damaged trust between residents and the local authority" and that locals "just wanted to be listened to and be taken seriously". 
In a statement, LDC said: "A significant number of representations were received shortly before the committee meeting which meant that they could not be fully considered.  "Council officers will consider them all and any substantive issues will be taken to an upcoming planning committee."The authority said food waste would be stored in "vermin-proof sealed containers" to be exchanged daily as well and "noise reducing gabion walls will be installed".
The site, currently owned by East Sussex County Council, is a former household waste and recycling centre. A community meeting against the depot is set to be held at The Hillcrest Centre in Newhaven from 18.30 BST on Friday.The opening date for the site is currently unknown. 
Follow BBC Sussex on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk  or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250.
