A drunk driver has admitted causing the deaths of two grandfathers as they returned home from a dominos game. 
Darren Sturgeon, 35, was speeding when he hit John Laird's car in Rutherglen on 18 November 2022, killing the driver and his passenger Michael McManamon. 
He pled guilty at the High Court in Glasgow to causing death by dangerous driving and driving without insurance.
It was also revealed that he was caught drink driving again five months after the fatal crash. 
Sturgeon, who is from the Eastwood area of Glasgow, was wearing only one shoe and had a bandaged foot when he was taken out of the wreckage of his Ford Mondeo "steaming" drunk.
His car had hit the passenger side of Mr Laird's Mercedes C220 on Mill Street at the junction with Kings Park Avenue and caused both cars to crash into metal railings.
The court heard Mr Laird, 80, and Mr McManamon, 73, were returning from a bowling club that evening, where they had been playing dominos.
Mr McManamon died at the scene and the driver later died in hospital.
Post-mortem examinations determined the cause of deaths as "multiple injuries caused by road traffic collision".
The court heard Sturgeon, who had been in hospital having a toe amputated a week earlier, had been seen driving erratically and at excessive speeds shortly before the crash. 
Prosecutor Graeme Jessop said the front of Sturgeon's car collided with the passenger side Mr Laird's car as it turned at a junction before the filter light was illuminated.
Collision investigators believed that Sturgeon had not "allowed sufficient time and distance to react appropriately to the presence of Mr Laird's car turning across the path" and it was "probable that Mr Laird failed to appreciate the speed of Sturgeon approaching when he committed to make the right turn".
Police found Sturgeon in the driver's seat, where he appeared to be under the influence and smelled strongly of alcohol. Sturgeon then failed a roadside breath test.
The court heard that as he was arrested, Sturgeon told officers he was "steaming". 
Later in hospital, he was was in "disbelief" that he had killed someone and said: "I've got five kids, I can't tell them their dad's killed someone, are you being legit?"
Joseph Barr, defending, told the court that Sturgeon was his most remorseful client in his 35 years in law.
The advocate read out a lengthy letter written by Sturgeon to apologise to the families who were in attendance at court.
It said: "I cannot emphasize how much I am sorry for the loss of your family members."
Retired electrician and offshore oil worker Mr Laird is survived by his wife, son, daughter and grandson.
Mr McManamon, a retired foreman, is survived by his two daughters and three granddaughters.
Sentence was deferred pending background reports until next month at the High Court in Aberdeen and Sturgeon was remanded in custody.
Judge Lord Colbeck said: "I think, as is recognised, you will receive a lengthy custodial sentence."
