Cornwall Council has successfully bid for funding to get the first electric buses in the county, it says.
Money from the Department for Transport ZEBRA 2 fund is to allow all of the Truro park and ride fleet to be replaced by electric buses next year.
Six more electric buses are due to be introduced in south-east Cornwall in a partnership with Plymouth City Council.
Councillor Richard Williams-Pears said he wanted to "continue to drive down carbon emissions".
Mr Williams-Pears, the Cornwall Council cabinet portfolio holder for transport, said: "Our Transport for Cornwall fleet is already one of the youngest in the country, with low-emission buses connecting communities throughout Cornwall. 
"Working with our operators, we want to continue to drive down our carbon emissions and this funding from the Department for Transport enables work to begin on the next phase, replacing diesel with electric." 
A new electric bus is also to be be provided for the Falmouth town service as part of the scheme, bosses said.
The Department for Transport has awarded £1.3m towards the infrastructure and buses for the Truro and Falmouth services, with the council committing £1.95m. 
Bus operator OTS and Falmouth Town Council have also supported the bid to bring an electric bus to the town, committing £105,000 and £5,000 respectively to the project. 
Craig George, bus services manager at OTS, said: "Our services are at the heart of the community and it is most fitting that we will bring an electric bus to our Service 60, which has stops in the very heart of Falmouth.
"This will be a tangible improvement for not just our passengers, but also anyone who works, shops and holidays in our beautiful town."
The six south-east Cornwall buses, in the partnership between Plymouth City Council, Plymouth CityBus, Go Cornwall Bus and Cornwall Council, will run on the 70/A/B routes around Torpoint and the Rame Peninsula. 
Follow BBC Cornwall on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk.
