EDINBURG — Two men will serve more than 10 years in prison after pleading guilty to attempted murder charges.
Jesus Alberto Palacios, 34, and Carlos Eduardo Aguilar, 20, stood in front of 332nd state District Court Judge Mario Ramirez during a brief sentencing hearing.
Palacios was facing one count of attempted murder and two counts of evading arrest, while Aguilar faced one count of attempted murder, since their arrests in Oct. 2016, according to court records.
Ramirez sentenced Palacios, who prosecutors believe was the driver in an alleged drug deal gone wrong that led to a shooting in September of last year, to 12 years in prison on the attempted murder charge, and gave him a 10-year sentence on the evading arrest charges.
The sentences will run concurrently.
Aguilar, originally of Alamo, was sentenced to 17 years in prison due to his role as the shooter in the incident.
Both men had previously accepted plea agreements Feb. 21, opting not to face a jury trial; most likely because state prosecutors had the surveillance footage from the night of the incident.
The prison sentences are related to a Sept. 20 incident at a drive-thru in rural Donna, where authorities said a shooting took place after a drug deal went bad.
On Sept. 20, 2016, deputies responded to a shooting at JD’s Drive-Thru Store in the 500 block of West Sioux Road.
Prosecutors said Aguilar at some point called the victim to set up a drug deal to buy an unknown amount of ecstasy in the parking lot of the drive-thru.

        
    
But surveillance video from the establishment shows that Aguilar, Palacios, along with a third man, Fermin Saucedo Dueñez, decided to rob the man of his drugs instead.
Saucedo, 38, of Alamo, remains wanted in connection with this shooting.
Aguilar is seen on surveillance video pistol-whipping the victim, at which point his gun goes off.
Moments later, Aguilar is shown shooting the victim in the back, officials said.
Originally the victim of the shooting claimed multiple people had robbed him but later investigators determined the shooting was a result of a drug deal gone wrong, officials said.
Palacios is seen on the surveillance video attacking the victim momentarily, but did not shoot or carry a weapon during the incident.
Aguilar was also wanted in two other Texas counties in connection with multiple crimes: possession of a deadly weapon in Karnes County, located between San Antonio and Corpus Christi, as well as assault of a public servant and two counts of possession of a deadly weapon in Medina County west of San Antonio, court records show.
Aguilar in 2013 pleaded guilty to assault of a public servant and served three years in state prison, according to court records.
Palacios, a Donna native, previously pleaded guilty to evading arrest and possession of marijuana charges, as well as federal illegal re-entry charges, according to court records.
[email protected]
