PARIS (AP) — More than a million Facebook users like the idea of hosting the 2024 Olympic Games in Los Angeles. Many of them, oddly enough, from Pakistan.
A report prepared for The Associated Press says most of LA’s likes have come in the past six weeks from far away from Southern California.
“The fan growth evolution for the LA2024 Facebook page does seem suspicious,” said analyst Michaela Branova, whose Prague, Czech Republic-based firm, Socialbakers, drew up the report. “Countries such as Bangladesh and Pakistan suddenly spike from almost zero to tens of thousands of fans within a few days in February.”
LA campaign spokesman Jeff Millman said there was nothing suspicious about the figures. He said LA kicked off a series of Facebook advertisements starting Feb. 3. The scale and the mechanics of the advertising campaign weren’t made clear - Millman declined to divulge how much LA 2024 had spent on promotion - but he noted that Facebook ads were “more efficient in countries where there are fewer competing brands.”
He argued that it made sense to seek fans internationally.
“We are a global campaign, as the Olympic movement is global,” he said.
Socialbakers’ figures, which were commissioned by the AP, give some insight into the dynamics of both the Paris and Los Angeles’ social media campaigns.
By the end of 2016, Los Angeles had 209,000 or so likes, nearly all of which came from the United States, according to Socialbakers. Paris had 62,000 or so fans, 80 percent of which came from France.

        
    
By last week both sides’ figures had grown. Paris’ Facebook page tripled its following, but four out of five endorsements came from France, with many of the others originating in Algeria and Tunisia, former French colonies.
Los Angeles saw an explosion in support from Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nepal, Indonesia, Egypt, India, Afghanistan and other low-income countries, according to Socialbakers’ research. In Bangladesh alone, the number of supporters of the U.S. Olympic bid rose from a few dozen to 113,335 in a month-and-a-half. In Pakistan, the number of supporters leapt from 55 to 99,336 over the same period.
Socialbakers’ report said that more than 700,000 of the 1 million accounts that liked LA 2024’s Facebook page had done so within the past six weeks. The surge helped LA blow past Paris (about 235,000 likes) and hit the million mark at an opportune moment. An Olympics conference started Tuesday in Denmark, the first of three events between now and September, when the International Olympic Committee is scheduled to pick one city over the other.
Socialbakers said it wasn’t working for the LA or Paris bid, and that its work was transparent.
“It’s all publicly available, taken directly from the Facebook API,” said spokeswoman Claire Wilson, referring to Facebook’s data interface.
Branova and outside experts said it was possible that a large chunk of LA’s social media support was drummed up by advertisements or other paid methods.
“It’s consistent with what you’d expect to see from paid endorsements,” said Daniel Mochon, who teaches social media marketing at Tulane University’s A. B. Freeman School of Business. “They tend to come from developing countries ... You’re going to see sudden spikes that are not necessarily tied to anything external.”
Social media support has been invoked as a selling point by the LA bid, which is 
locked in competition with Paris
 for the chance to host the Summer Games. On Monday, LA 2024 
released a statement
 crowing about how its campaign had passed the 1 million follower mark.
That was endorsed by Nathan Cowan of Seattle-based digital marketing analytics firm Rival IQ, which wasn’t involved in the report. Cowan said that while hadn’t seen the raw data, Socialbakers’ work “appears to be entirely accurate.”
Cowan echoed Socialbakers’ suspicions about LA’s numbers, noting the “extreme spike in followers” and their unusual geographic breakdown.
Paris 2024 officials declined to comment. Facebook declined comment, saying in an email that it was up to advertisers to disclose how they promoted their pages. The IOC did not offer any comment, but the group’s 
rules of conduct
 note that promotion of a city’s bid must take place “with dignity and moderation.”
Satter contributed from London. Graham Dunbar in Aarhus, Denmark contributed to this report.
Online:
The Socialbakers report: 
https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/3534556-FB-Overview-Compare-2017-04-03.html
Contact Raphael Satter at: 
http://raphaelsatter.com
Contact Samuel Petrequin at: 
https://twitter.com/sampetrequin
