TV presenter Phil Spencer has paid tribute to his "amazing parents" after they died together when their car toppled into a river.
Anne and David Spencer died following the accident on their farm in Kent.
Mr Spencer, best known for presenting Location, Location, Location, said his parents "would have held hands under the water and quietly slipped away".
His brother had pulled them out of the river but they never regained consciousness, Mr Spencer said.
In a statement posted on Instagram, Mr Spencer, 53, said the accident on Friday had been "what God planned" for his parents, who had been married for six decades and raised four children. 
"As a family we are all trying to hold on to the fact mum and dad went together and that neither will ever have to mourn the loss of the other one," he said.
Mr Spencer said that while both his parents had been on "good form" before they died, his mother's Parkinson's disease and his father's dementia had been "worsening".
Describing the accident, which happened in Littlebourne, Mr Spencer said they had been on their way to lunch when their car "very slowly" toppled over a bridge, before falling upside down into the river.
Their carer had also been in the car, but she managed to climb out of the back window and raise the alarm, Mr Spencer said.
"As many farmers do, my brother had a penknife and so was able to cut the seat belts," he went on, adding: "He pulled them out of the river but they never regained consciousness."
Mr Spencer said the family was "desperately sad and shocked beyond all belief" but knowing his parents had died "together on the farm they so loved" would be "a comfort in the future".
Kent Fire and Rescue Service said they were called to the scene just after 12:00 on 18 August, where they stayed for 90 minutes.
Three fire engines and a water safety unit attended, and crews assisted South East Coast Ambulance Service and made the scene safe, they said in a statement.
Kirstie Allsopp, Mr Spencer's co-host on Location, Location, Location, said she was sending him "so much love".
"The only blessing is they died together, so will never have to mourn the loss of each other," she said.
Sharing a recent photograph of the couple on Instagram, Ms Allsopp said she was "desperately sad" and asked fans to "keep them in your thoughts and prayers". 
"They were farmers, animal lovers and devoted parents to Robert, Caryn, Helen and Philip and adored their eight grandchildren," Ms Allsopp wrote. 
"I suspect many of you may want to join me in sending so much love to Phil and all his family."
Mr Spencer and Ms Allsopp have presented Location, Location, Location together for more than 20 years, appearing in 39 series of the Channel 4 property programme as well as spin-off shows including Relocation, Relocation.
Sign up for our morning newsletter and get BBC News in your inbox.
