From Bangladesh to Las Vegas and Brazil to Rome, demonstrations by supporters of Israel and the Palestinians were held around the world as people took to the streets to expresses their views and often outrage as the 
war escalated between Israel and Hamas militants.
Demonstrators have taken to the streets of Rome, Barcelona, Brasilia, Buenos Aires, Vancouver and other cities and towns to show support for one side or the other. In San Francisco and other cities, demonstrators from the opposing sides faced off across main streets.
A woman from the Palestinian community cries during a protest in support of the Palestinian people outside the National Museum in Brasilia, Brazil, on Oct. 10, 2023. (AP Photo/Eraldo Peres)
In Paris, people gathered to support Israel as the Eiffel Tower was lit in the colors of that country, and in Rome more gathered at the Emperor Tito’s Arch as it was also light up in blue and white.
In Karachi, Pakistan, people burned Israeli and American flags while in London people held candle light vigils for Israeli victims. 
Protesters show photos and placards during the “Jewish Community Vigil” for Israel in London on Oct. 9, 2023, two days after Hamas launched a multi-front attack on Israel. (AP Photo/Kin Cheung)
Demonstrators hold Palestinian flags during a protest against Israeli airstrikes on Gaza and to show solidarity with the Palestinian people, in Barcelona, Spain on Oct. 8, 2023. (AP Photo/Emilio Morenatti)
People hold flags and banners during a rally in Las Vegas in support of Israel on Oct. 8, 2023. (AP Photo/John Locher)
A man wipes away tears during an event organized to support Israel in its fighting with Hamas militants on Oct. 9, 2023, at Congregation Beth Yeshurun in Houston. ( Jon Shapley/Houston Chronicle via AP
A Palestinian supporter passes by supporters of Israel gathered near the Israeli Consulate in New York on Oct. 9, 2023, in the wake of an attack on Israel by Hamas militants. (AP Photo/Craig Ruttle)
Chabad-Lubavitch Orthodox Jews listen during a prayer vigil held in solidarity with Israel on Oct. 9, 2023, in New York. (AP Photo/Andres Kudacki)
Women gather to protest against Israeli airstrikes on Gaza in the Puerta del Sol in central Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 9, 2023. (AP Photo/Paul White)
Islami Andolan Bangladesh activists protest against Israel’s military operations in Gaza and to support the Palestinian people, in front of Baitul Mukarram mosque in Dhaka, Bangladesh, on Oct. 10, 2023. (AP Photo/Mahmud Hossain Opu)
A Palestinian supporter holds a sign and chants while attending a demonstration in Vancouver, British Columbia, on Oct. 9, 2023. (Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press via AP)
A woman with a Palestinian flag painted on her face cries during a protest against Israeli airstrikes on Gaza in Madrid, Spain, on Oct. 9, 2023. (AP Photo/Paul White)
A demonstrator crossing the street is silhouetted behind an Israeli flag during a rally in support of Israel on Oct. 9, 2023, in Bellevue, Wash. (AP Photo/Lindsey Wasson)
Hundreds of Palestinian and Israeli supporters face off outside of the Consulate of Israel in San Francisco on Oct. 8, 2023. (Bronte Wittpenn/San Francisco Chronicle via AP)
Palestinian supporters light flares during a demonstration in London on Oct. 9, 2023, two days after Hamas launched a multi-front attack on Israel. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth)
People cry and comfort each other during a demonstration in support of Israel in Buenos Aires on Oct. 9, 2023, after Hamas militants surprised Israel with a deadly attack on Saturday. (AP Photo/Victor R. Caivano)
The Eiffel Tower is illuminated with the colors of Israel during a demonstration in Paris in a show of support for Israel on Oct. 9, 2023, two days after Hamas launched a multi-front attack on Israel. (AP Photo/Michel Euler)
People light candles during the “Jewish Community Vigil” for Israel in London on Oct. 9, 2023, two days after Hamas launched a multi-front attack on Israel. (AP Photo/Kin Cheung)
A supporter holds Israeli and American flags at a solidarity event in Glencoe, Ill., on Oct. 10, 2023. (AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh)
Palestinians attend a rally in support of Hamas and the Gaza Strip in the West Bank city of Nablus on Oct. 9, 2023. (AP Photo/Majdi Mohammed)
Supporters of Palestinian Foundation Pakistan burn representations of Israeli and American flags during a protest against the Israeli airstrikes on Gaza in a show of solidarity with the Palestinian people, in Karachi, Pakistan, on Oct. 8, 2023. (AP Photo/Ikram Suri)
A demonstrator waves the flag of Israel during a rally in Bellevue, Wash., on Oct. 9, 2023. (AP Photo/Lindsey Wasson)
A woman from the Palestinian community takes part in a protest in support of the Palestinian people outside the National Museum in Brasilia, Brazil, on Oct. 10, 2023. (AP Photo/Eraldo Peres)
People attend a candlelight rally in support of Israel at the Arch of Titus in Rome on Oct. 10, 2023. (AP Photo/Andrew Medichini)
Supporters take part in the Canada Palestine Cultural Association rally in solidarity with Palestinians in Edmonton, Alberta, on Oct. 8, 2023. (Jason Franson/The Canadian Press via AP)
People gather during a demonstration in a show of support for Israel on Oct. 10, 2023, in Lyon, central France. (AP Photo/Laurent Cipriani)
