A boy with spina bifida says being allowed into a train cab to make announcements was "a dream come true".Eight-year-old Alfie from Luton uses a wheelchair and would love to be a train driver when he is older.BBC Three Counties Radio presenter Justin Dealey worked with train company Thameslink to organise the treat as a reward for Alfie doing well at school.His dad Kevin said Alfie “absolutely loved” the return trip to Bedford. 
"He had a fantastic day, and Thameslink really pulled out the stops," said Kevin."As a family, my father worked in aircraft. But Alfie’s always said he wants to be a train driver. He watches train videos on YouTube."
Alfie also has hydrocephalus, a build-up of water in the brain, and his parents said he had worked particularly hard to make progress at school this year.They met Thameslink driver Barry Minall and station manager Joe Healy at Luton Airport Parkway station, where Alfie received a high-visibility vest and whistle. He then had the opportunity to announce the arrival of trains.The party boarded the 11:23 to Bedford and on arrival, Kevin lifted Alfie into the rear end driver’s seat of another service for the return trip.Passengers were treated to the announcement: “Hello my name is Alfie. This is the 12:34 service to Three Bridges.”
Mr Minall said: "As soon as we heard about Alfie’s love of trains we wanted to make that dream come true. "He can’t take to the driver’s cab just yet but we arranged the next best thing – a trip in a cab."Alfie said the experience "was great.. it was textbook".Mum Lisa added: "Alfie’s at the age now where he’s asking questions. He said, ‘Mummy, I can’t use my legs; will I always be like this? Why can’t they fix me?’."We focus on what he can do, not what he can’t."We hope he’ll eventually be able to use a walking frame. Also, when he’s a teenager, we want to make sure he’s independent. He needs to have the confidence to travel which is why this trip has been so important."
Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
