‘Tis the season for bright and blinking lights gilding the borders of home roofs and yards, both to evoke the joy of the season and inspire future lighting craftsmen.
Lehi resident Michael Downey has a large, choreographed light show adorning the front of his home at 2489 W. 700 South in Lehi. With a sign that encourages passerby to tune to a specific radio frequency, his light show is one to be enjoyed while parked in the warm coziness of the family car.
Downey programmed and synchronized his amazing light show to about 10 holiday songs. During Elvis Presley’s rendition of “Here Comes Santa Claus,” three tall trees sing, and Santa and two reindeer dance, while snowflakes, candy canes and even a hippopotamus blink along. During “Mele Kalikimaka” the three trees change to palm trees, and the lights across the yard and roof blink different colors in time with the beat, sometimes evoking waves.
“You have to be in the car listening to the music. If you can’t hear the music, the lights just look spastic,” laughed his wife, Lorena Downey.
The entire show lasts about 30 minutes from start to finish, and the Downeys don’t mind people hanging out in front of their house to watch. Michael Downey said he loves doing it, and does it to make people happy.
“We have a lot of people tell us how much they like it. One single mom came by and told us she loves our show because it’s something free she can do with her family,” Lorena Downey said.

        
    
Michael Downey said, for him, after 15 years of doing these light shows, this is the first year he’s been completely satisfied with his show.
“I can sit out there and it’s cool. I’m really pleased,” he said.
It’s been a long process getting to this point, and he’s had a long learning curve along the way — learning how to program the LED lights, building the props for them and assembling the power boxes. He didn’t start out with all he has now, but added a little bit each year.
“A lot of people go big from day one, but it’s more fun and less stressful to go bigger slowly,” Michael Downey said.
That’s his advice to anyone hoping to create their own fantastic light show: start small. He shares this advice often through the Facebook page he’s a member of: 
Rocky Mountain Christmas Displays
. The page is for budding and seasoned light display crafters. In it, he also encourages rookies to create props to use more than once, and are easy to store.
“My tallest tree is 14 and a half feet because that’s how tall my garage is, and I want to be able to bring it in, and lean it against the wall. My lights are on frames so with four screws I can hang them quickly,” he explained. “I’m a huge believer in doing a lot of work on a prop one year and no work after that. It’s possible to do this in a way you aren’t killing yourself and cussing over it. I just can’t stress enough, you just keep it as simple as possible.”
Michael Downey also shares his love of holiday lights with others by highlighting and mapping local light displays around the area. He shared the map recently at his Facebook page, 
Downey Family Holiday Lights
. One of the houses marked on the map is just down the street from him, where one man at 249 E. 700 South has an entire yard of lights. They are more for the drive-by experience, as they are not synchronized to music, but Downey said they are very impressive.
“I’d hate for someone to drive all the way out here and then go home, when there are so many other lights to see,” he said.
