A man who was saved by the RNLI has been reunited with one of his rescuers ahead of an event to celebrate the charity's volunteers.
Philip Clark made a mayday call last year after the watercraft he was riding caught fire and sank in Poole Harbour.
He visited the lifeboat station ahead of the Poole Lifeboat Festival, which takes place on Saturday and Sunday.
He told volunteer crewmember Susie Jupp: "I'm forever in your debt for rescuing me."
Poole Lifeboat Festival takes place over two days and culminates in a Parade of Sail at 16:00 BST on Sunday when a fleet of historic, international and modern lifeboats take to the waters of Poole Harbour.
The RNLI, which celebrates its bicentenary this year, said the festival was a "celebration of those who go to sea to rescue others, and of the people back on shore who help them do so".
Describing his ordeal, Mr Clark said: "I was just there, floating in the water. There was not one person about and I was drifting into the shipping lane.
"I reached for my radio and called a mayday - I really didn't want to do that, but I finally got up the courage to do it.
"Without the RNLI, I'd still be out there now."
Ms Jupp is one of about 5,700 volunteers in the UK who crew the RNLI's lifeboats.
She said: "We get a brief tasking and, while we are on our way, we will be given other details as we go, so sometimes it can be very limited information."
As well the the thousands of lifeboat volunteers, a further 4,000 volunteer for the RNLI in shore-based roles.
Malcolm Greenslade, an open-water swimming coach, took up the role of lifeguard in Lyme Regis in 2023, aged 63. His son and daughter are also lifeguards.
He said: "It isn't that much of a commitment because, with volunteering, you don't necessarily have to commit to so many hours a day or week.
"Very often, if there is an incident down here they'll give me a call, and sometimes on busy bank holidays I'll come down and be an extra pair of eyes on the water.
"I don't think you ever are off duty and if you spoke to any lifeguard, they'd probably say the same."
Poole Lifeboat Festival is free and takes part over four sites - the RNLI Support Centre, including the RNLI College and the All-weather Lifeboat Centre, Poole Lifeboat Station, Poole Quay and Poole Old Lifeboat Museum.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2240.
