Two Welsh fire services are to face independent reviews of their workplace culture after allegations of "bullying, sexual harassment and favouritism".
North Wales and Mid and West Wales fire services have said they will urgently appoint people to conduct the reviews.
Deputy Minister for Social Welfare Hannah Blythyn said the public needed to be "reassured".
South Wales Fire and Rescue Service was taken over by the Welsh government last month following a critical review.
Both fire services are expected to publish the findings of their investigations towards the end of this year. 
Ms Blythyn said she had arranged to meet with the chief fire officers of both bodies in the wake of the report into South Wales fire service. 
In the report, published in January, Fenella Morris KC found widespread evidence of misconduct, a dysfunctional workplace and systemic managerial failings at South Wales fire service.
She also concluded that the service tolerated sexual harassment and domestic abuse.
South Wales Fire and Rescue Service said at the time that it welcomed the "scrutiny and direction" that the takeover would bring.
Roger Thomas, the chief fire officer for Mid and West Wales Fire and Rescue Service, said he welcomed the review as an opportunity to "review how we are progressing on our cultural journey".
"The Service has a zero-tolerance policy on any form of misogyny, racism, bullying or inappropriate behaviour.
"I want to show appreciation for the continuous hard work and dedication of our staff, as well as reassure the public that we will handle this process with integrity, honesty and transparency," he said. 
Dawn Docx, chief fire officer for North Wales Fire and Rescue Service, said the review was "an opportunity for continued self-reflection and improvement".
"This is a journey we embarked upon two years ago and we recognise the importance of external assurance, scrutiny, and challenge in our ongoing progress," she said.
"We believe it is crucial to seek external validation and input to ensure that we continue on the right path."
Ms Docx told BBC Radio Wales Breakfast on Tuesday that "all" fire and rescue services had a "macho" and "hierarchical" past.
"But we're moving forward - we're not in that place anymore," she added.
"Culture doesn't sort of just stop, it doesn't just finish at one point and then flip over and change. It's a continuum and there are people out there who are still hurting from injustices in the past. My message to them would be please, please come forwards."
Ms Blythyn said she had been sent correspondence from current and former employees of both organisations, including allegations of bullying, sexual harassment and favouritism in promotion.
"The public need to be re-assured about the culture and related management practices in our fire and rescue services and staff need to be assured they have a safe and effective means to share their experiences - good and bad - within their organisation," she said.
Cerith Griffiths, executive council member for Wales for the Fire Brigades' Union, told Radio Wales Breakfast that the reviews were "welcome".
"In the fullness of time we'll see what emerges from these reviews," Mr Griffiths said.
"I think people are going to be pretty shocked with what they are going to learn in the coming months."
