AL AMERAT, Oman (AP) — Scotland recorded its third successive victory and advanced to the next stage of the T20 World Cup with a resounding eight-wicket win over co-host Oman on Thursday.
Earlier, Bangladesh beat Papua New Guinea by 84 runs to finish behind Scotland in Group B and also advanced to the Super 12.
Scotland joins India, Pakistan, New Zealand and Afghanistan in Group 2 while Bangladesh goes into the group that features England, South Africa, West Indies and Australia.
Oman, which needed a win to eliminate Scotland on net run-rate, was bowled out for 122 after its key batsman Jatinder Singh was run out in the very first over.
Opening batsman Aqib Ilyas top-scored with 37 and captain Zeeshan Maqsood made 34 but the rest of the batting lineup struggled against the Scottish pace and spin.
Fast bowlers Josh Davey (3-25) and Safyaan Sharif (2-25) bowled economically and never allowed Oman to accelerate.
Captain Kyle Coetzer (41) then led the run-chase by hitting three sixes and two fours as Scotland, which upset Bangladesh in the first match and also beat Papua New Guinea, reached 123-2 with three overs to spare.
“It’s a great feeling,” Coetzer said. “We will go into every game full of hope and belief that we can win more games. Look for match-winning contributions, as well as significant contributions.”
Richie Berrington (31 not out) finished off the game in style by hitting a four and a six to Mohammad Nadeem as Oman bowed out of the event with a solitary win against PNG.

        
    
“It’s a chance that we have lost, but we will come back,” Maqsood said. “It was a short total … (but) happy with the way the boys played.”
Shakib Al Hasan’s brilliant allround performance against Papua New Guinea helped Bangladesh advance.
Shakib made 46 runs off 28 balls in Bangladesh’s impressive total of 181-7, then the world’s leading wicket-taker in T20s took 4-9, slicing through an inexperienced PNG top order. The T20 World Cup debutant was bowled out for 97 in 19.3 overs.
“It (the win) was much needed,” Bangladesh captain Mahmudullah said. “The intent was there from the batters … the wicket was better in comparison, so the batters did well to get 180.”
PNG was reduced to 7-29 within 11 overs and No. 8 batsman Kiplin Doriga lashed out with 46 not out for nearly half of their runs.
Shakib, introduced in the batting powerplay, dismissed Charles Amini and Simon Atai in his first over as Bangladesh held onto some superb catches.
Sese Bau holed out to long on off Shakib and the left-arm spinner rounded off his spell by seeing Hiri Hiri caught behind off a mistimed slog sweep for a duck in his T20 World Cup debut.
Earlier, Mahmudullah top-scored with 50 off 28 balls and Shakib hammered three sixes in a daunting Bangladesh total.
PNG skipper Assad Vala and fast bowler Kabua Morea finished with identical figures of 2-26, but medium fast bowler Chad Soper conceded 53 runs off his four overs without a wicket.
“We just couldn’t execute our death bowling under pressure,” Vala said. “We can take back executing our skills under pressure, we weren’t good enough. Next time if we get the opportunity, we’ll try to change it.”
More AP sports: https://apnews.com/hub/apf-sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
