Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer has told the England team “we are all behind you” ahead of Sunday's Euro 2024 final against Spain in Germany."You should all be proud of what you've achieved so far,” he said. “I hope you can take some strength from the millions at home kicking every ball alongside you.”Sir Keir and thousands of England fans will be in the stands at Berlin’s Olympiastadion as the team tries to win the European Championship for the first time.The match, which kicks off at 20:00 BST, will be their second consecutive appearance in the final.
"You don't need a running commentary from a politician on what you should or shouldn't do,” Sir Keir said."You're here not because of luck, but because of your graft and hard work. You've earned it. As you did three years ago, you've made the country proud."Whatever happens, you should know that you have united the country, and we are all behind you."So enjoy tonight. I know that up and down the country, we all will."The Prince of Wales, who serves as president of the Football Association, will also attend the match."We are so proud of you all," he posted on social media. "Just one last push to finish the job! Go out there and show the world what you’re made of. We believe."The prince was in Germany for England's group stage match against Denmark and the quarter-final victory over Switzerland.He took his eldest son, Prince George, to the final of the last Euros at Wembley, which England lost to Italy on penalties.A year later he attended the Lionesses win against Germany in the Women's Euro 2022 and awarded the players their medals.The team also received words of encouragement from Conservative leader and former prime minister Rishi Sunak.“We are right behind you tonight and, whatever the result, I know you'll do us all proud. Bring it home," he said.
It was also confirmed on Saturday that Prince William's wife, the Princess of Wales, will attend the Wimbledon men's final on Sunday in what will be only her second public appearance following her cancer diagnosis and abdominal surgery earlier this year.Catherine has been a patron of the All-England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club for the past eight years.On Sunday the princess will present the trophy to the winner of this year's men's singles tournament, Kensington Palace confirmed.
