Householders are being urged to bring in their bins as part of  a council campaign aimed at tidying up the streets.Isle of Wight Council is asking residents not to leave wheelie bins or rubbish bags on footpaths all week.The campaign, launched on Monday, is using hashtags on social media promoting slogans such as "bring your bin in". The authority can issue fixed penalty notices of up to £80 if householders’ bins or sacks cause access issues, attract vermin or are unsightly.
The council said bins or gull-proof sacks must be placed out by 07:00 BST on the day of collection and no earlier than 19:00 the evening before collection. They should be returned to properties by 22:00 on the day of collection.Councillor Lora Peacey-Wilcox, cabinet lead for climate change, biosphere and waste, said bins being left in the street could cause problems for people with sight loss, parents with pushchairs, and people in wheelchairs who cannot use the pavement.She added: “To help people in your neighbourhood, please make sure any bins or sacks you put out aren't blocking the pavement on collection day. "Please don't leave them out for any longer than necessary. So let's keep our streets neat and make sure you bring your bins or sacks back in.”
Council service director for waste, environment and planning, Natasha Dix, said: “Bins or sacks left on public pavements for days can lead to hygiene and contamination issues, as well as safety concerns because pedestrians are forced onto the road.“We all have a part in keeping our beautiful island safe, clean and tidy. "This includes the collection crews making sure bins are returned safely to the kerb without causing obstructions to the pavement."It’s also down to us all, as residents, to make sure we bring our bins or sacks back onto our property after collection. "These small actions make it easier for all our community to use the pavement safely.”
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X (Twitter), or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2240.
