HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) — Penn State settled with six more victims or accusers of Jerry Sandusky, according to a new audit that puts the school’s total payout in the child sex abuse scandal at nearly $93 million.
The university’s audited financial statements for the year that ended June 30, dated Oct. 30, show $33.2 million in new payments over claims related to the former longtime assistant football coach.
“Additional claims could be paid in the future but without having knowledge of the number and nature of such claims the university is unable to predict the outcome of these matters,” wrote auditors with Deloitte & Touche LLP in Philadelphia.
Sandusky is pursuing an appeal while he serves 30 to 60 years in prison on a 45-count child sexual abuse conviction. He recently won a court decision restoring his Penn State pension, which the state retirement system had canceled the day he was sentenced.
The audit findings, which say the school has now paid or agreed to pay 32 claims, were reported Wednesday by WJAC-TV in Johnstown.
Three former top Penn State administrators who were charged with covering up complaints about Sandusky await an appeals ruling in their effort to get charges dropped against them.
University spokesman Lawrence Lokman declined to comment on the settlements, citing strict confidentiality agreements.
“Obviously, we continue to be saddened by the pain suffered by all victims of child abuse (and) are committed to helping survivors heal and to educate others about these insidious crimes against children,” Lokman said Friday.

        
    
On Monday, a federal case in eastern Pennsylvania against Sandusky, the university and Sandusky-founded children’s charity The Second Mile was dismissed. Howard Janet, a lawyer for the young man known as Victim 6, who testified against Sandusky, told the judge the parties had reached a confidential settlement.
Penn State announced in October 2013 it had agreed to give 26 people $59.7 million related to the Sandusky scandal. In April, the university board voted 18-6 to authorize Penn State officials to settle additional Sandusky-related litigation after dollar limits were discussed in private.
“In retrospect, I should never have voted to approve any of the settlements,” trustee Anthony Lubrano said Friday, though he declined to elaborate. Lubrano, like other alumni-elected board members, has been highly critical of the university’s handling of the Sandusky scandal.
