LONDON (AP) — It has become a daily ritual.
Every morning, before she’s even out of her pajamas, Rachel Goldberg-Polin tears a piece of masking tape off the roll, grabs a marking pen and in thick black strokes writes down the number of days her son, Hersh, has been 
held hostage
 by 
Hamas
 militants. Then she sticks the tape to her chest.
“I find it so remarkable how nauseating it is every single time,’’ she said. “And it’s good. I don’t want to get used to it. I don’t want anybody to get used to the fact that these people are missing.’’
Hersh Goldberg-Polin, 23, was last seen Oct. 7, when militants loaded him into the back of a pickup truck with other people who were abducted from a 
southern Israel music festival
 where over 300 
attendees were killed
. The native of Berkeley, California, lost part of an arm when the attackers tossed grenades into the shelter where a group of young people had taken refuge.
Sunday will mark 100 days
 since he and about 250 others were taken hostage by the militants who stormed across the border from Gaza, triggering 
the latest war
 between Israel and Hamas. While dozens of women, children and foreigners were released during a 
weeklong November cease-fire
, and a number of hostages have been 
confirmed dead
, 132 others remain in captivity. The Red Cross hasn’t been permitted to see them, and almost nothing is known about their conditions.

        
    
Rachel Goldberg-Polin, 54, now spends her days trying to bring Hersh and the other hostages home.
The mother of three has spent the past three months in relentless motion, 
crisscrossing the globe
, 
reminding anyone who will listen
 that her child is more than just an inconvenient statistic: He is her only son, a music lover, a young man who deserves the chance to fulfill his dream of traveling the world.
FILE - A largge banner depicting Hersh Goldberg-Polin as families and supporters of Israeli hostages held by Hamas in Gaza protest calling for their return, outside a meeting between U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Israeli President Isaac Herzog, in Tel Aviv, Israel, Tuesday, Jan. 9, 2024. (AP Photo/Oded Balilty, File)
Goldberg-Polin and her family, who moved to Israel from the United States when Hersh was 7, have met with U.S. President Joe Biden, 
Pope Francis
, Elon Musk and dozens of journalists. She’s spoken at the United Nations, 
gone to protests
 and carried placards.
The plight of the hostages has gripped Israel’s attention, and the tireless campaign by families has gained widespread support and sympathy, ratcheting up 
pressure on the Israeli government
 to make concessions to win their release.
The Goldberg-Polin family planned to attend the start of a 24-hour rally for the hostages in Tel Aviv on Saturday and another Sunday on the Jerusalem Promenade, a collection of parks and walkways overlooking the city. Similar events are scheduled in cities outside Israel, including 
London
, New York and Paris.
FILE - A friend of Hersh Goldberg-Polin, who was abducted during a Hamas attack on Israel, cries as she touches his photograph in Tel Aviv, Israel, Friday, Oct. 27, 2023. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco, File)
But so far, nothing has stopped the number on the masking tape from going up.
The ritual began on Day 26, when Goldberg-Polin stuck the makeshift badge to her chest to show everyone that the 
excruciating, ever-increasing tally
 was the focus of her life, not just a factoid for news stories.
“It defines me anyway,’’ she told The Associated Press on Wednesday, when her badge read 96. She likened it to a name tag, in the fashion of “Hello my name is.’'
“This is who I am,” she said. “My identity is the number of days he’s been stolen.″
Ahead of the 100-day milestone, Goldberg-Polin asked people around the world to adopt her routine on Sunday, hoping the show of solidarity would help her and the other families 
bear the pain
 and anguish of waiting yet another day for their loved ones to return.
FILE - Rachel Goldberg, second right, mother of Hersh Goldberg-Polin, 23, and Jonathan Polin, Hersh’s father, right, take part in a press conference with relatives of U.S. citizens that are missing since a cross-border attack by Hamas militants near the Gaza border, on Oct. 10, 2023 in Tel Aviv, Israel. (AP Photo/Maya Alleruzzo, File)
Goldberg-Polin’s masking tape badge was inspired by childhood memories from 1979, when America was transfixed by the fate of 
52 people held hostage
 at the U.S. Embassy in Iran. ABC News opened its coverage every night with a running count of how many days the crisis had lasted. The hostages were finally released after 444 days.
“This makes people very uncomfortable because you know what? Human beings like a countdown,” Goldberg-Polin said. “We like to countdown to vacation. We like to count down in Times Square on New Year’s Eve.
“We do not like a count-up. A count-up of humanity’s failure of getting these human beings out of captivity is something that makes people very uncomfortable. And you know what? Join the club. I’ve been uncomfortable for 96 days.”
Even so, the 
100-day mark
 has offered a moment to direct the world’s attention back on the hostages. Goldberg-Polin hopes that someone, somewhere is 
caring for her injured son
. 
She has a message for Hersh, just in case it might reach him.
“I would say: There has not been one second since you were taken that we are not working, turning over every single stone on the planet Earth and running to the ends of the Earth to get you back,” she said. “So we need you to stay strong. And survive and stay alive. And we are coming.”
