A veteran swimmer who suffered a cardiac arrest during a race in 2023 is to return to the scene of the incident 12 months on.Nick Parkes, 63, had to be pulled from the water at last year's Swim England National Masters Open Water Championships and given CPR by the side of the lake before undergoing open-heart surgery.One year on, and back to full health, Mr Parkes, from Stokesley, thanked all those who came to his aid as he prepares to compete once more at Rother Valley Country Park later."I'm nervous and excited to get back into the water and go back to that same venue," he said. "It's going to be emotional."
Mr Parkes, who swims for Harrogate Swimming Club, only started swimming competitively aged 50. "I started doing some competitions and discovered I could beat swimmers half my age without getting too out of breath and that gave me a buzz," he said. Wins in national championships in Germany, France and Austria soon followed.By July 2023 he was hoping to defending his Swim England National Masters Open Water titles for the tenth year. 
But, three-quarters of the way into the 5,000m race he was spotted by a kayaker  motionless with his face down in the water. He was quickly pulled from the lake and taken to the shore where he received CPR and defibrillator treatment before being rushed to hospital.Doctors discovered Mr Parkes had suffered a cardiac arrest.Still, when he came round from a coma, his first thought was the race. “When I woke up in hospital, the first thing I asked was ‘well, did I win the race’?" he said. Following  surgery and rehabilitation, Mr Parkes is now back to swimming six times a week and has already taken part in some local races. But returning to the site of his cardiac arrest for the 2024 National Masters Open Water Swimming Championships, will be a big moment, he said. He will also have chance to meet with some of people who helped save his life last year."I think the solace for the people who helped me is that they can see me now having recovered and I'm in a place where they can just look at me and say 'I don't know how you've done this Nick'," he said.He added that he hoped his story would inspire others to visit their GP for a health check.He said: “I know of swimmers who have been and got themselves checked out since my little episode and that’s good to hear."“I realise how lucky I am and I can’t thank everyone enough.”A Swim England spokesperson said: “We are delighted to be welcoming Nick back to the GoCardless Swim England Open Water Masters Championships this weekend.“It’s an opportunity for us to celebrate Nick’s remarkable story and a chance for Nick to thank those people who saved his life.”Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
