Rail users across Scotland's central belt have been warned of major disruption as four days of safety works begins. 
From Monday engineers will be installing netting above the railway at Ratho to prevent potential rockfall.
ScotRail said there would be reduced capacity, replacement bus services and longer journey times. 
The rail operator said customers should plan ahead and on some routes only use the trains if the journey is essential. 
The safety work will limit services ScotRail can operate between Edinburgh and Glasgow, Bathgate, Linlithgow, Stirling, and Inverness.
Many services will terminate outside the capital with passengers having to rely on replacement bus services to take them to and from Edinburgh Park station on the outskirts of the city. 
The new specialist netting will help prevent loose stones falling from a fragile rock face measuring 10m high and 100m long above the railway.
Engineers will be working around the clock to preserve the condition of the wall, which means overhead lines will need to be switched off.
The planned work is being carried out in advance of sub-zero temperatures normally seen in February and March which could cause the condition of the rock cutting to deteriorate. 
ScotRail services on affected routes are due to return to normal on Friday 2 February.
Phil Campbell, ScotRail's customer operations director, urged customers on the worst affected routes to only travel if it is "absolutely essential".
"Lots of journeys will involve train, replacement bus and tram and that will add an awful long period of time onto a journey," he said. 
"Also the capacity will be much less than it is normally. 
"So we're asking customers to plan ahead and look for the latest information online, on social media or through our app."
He said there would be little benefit in carrying out the work at weekends because they have become busier than weekdays since the Covid pandemic.  
He added: "It's been a very disruptive period of time for our customers, but the decision that has been made are based on ensuring that the safety of our customers and staff is protected. 
"This work being carried out by Network Rail is critical to ensure we maintain the safety of the line."
ScotRail said the following services would be affected: 
For these routes there will be a limited number of replacement buses to Edinburgh Park. Tickets will then be accepted by Edinburgh Trams for travel to Waverley or Haymarket.  
Customers looking to travel directly between Edinburgh and Glasgow can still travel to and from Glasgow Central via Shotts or Carstairs. 
But the operator warned there would be limited extra capacity and journey times are 30 to 50 minutes longer compared to services via Falkirk High.
Trains across Scotland faced overnight closures earlier in January due to severe weather from Storms Isha and Jocelyn.
