King Charles III has been crowned alongside Queen Camilla in ceremony steeped in splendour and tradition inside Westminster Abbey. 
A host of other events have been planned for the rest of the weekend. Here is your guide to what will happen on Sunday and Monday. 
Neighbours and communities across the UK are being invited to share food and fun together as part of the Coronation Big Lunch.
From 20:00, The Coronation Concert will showcase the country's diverse cultural heritage in music, theatre and dance. Kirsty Young will anchor the live coverage for BBC TV and BBC iPlayer and Clara Amfo and Jordan Banjo will be backstage with the artists. 
The concert will see a world-class orchestra play a host of musical favourites and will also feature, for the first time ever, a joint performance from The Royal Ballet, The Royal Opera House, the Royal Shakespeare Company, The Royal College of Music and The Royal College of Art. 
As part of the show, ten locations around the UK including Blackpool, Sheffield, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Newcastle and Gateshead, Cornwall and Belfast will be lit up in a live sequence as part of Lighting Up The Nation. 
How to watch: The Coronation Concert will be broadcast live on BBC One, BBC iPlayer, BBC Radio 2 and BBC Sounds. In London it will be shown on the big screen in St. James's Park.
On Bank Holiday Monday, members of the public will be invited to take part in The Big Help Out, aiming to raise awareness of volunteering.
Thousands of organisations across the country are encouraging the public to make a difference in their local communities, with plenty of opportunities to get involved.
For those staying at home, specially-commissioned programming will be available on iPlayer, including Charles R: The Making of a Monarch, Songs of Praise: A Coronation Celebration and Stitching for Britain.
Read the latest from our royal correspondent Sean Coughlan - sign up here.
Pubs, clubs and bars across England and Wales will stay open for an extra two hours on Friday and Saturday. This map allows you to search for events in your area. Here are just a few examples of other events that will be happening around the UK:
What are your plans for the Coronation? Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways:
If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission. 
