A number of people in Cornwall have been honoured by the King's Birthday Honours 2024.Two people, from Falmouth and Par, were appointed MBEs for making a difference to young people's lives. Four people have been conferred BEMs for work in the community and for charities.David Nicoll, deputy second coxswain for the Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI) for Falmouth Station, was one of the people awarded a BEM.
The 61-year-old, from Falmouth, who is also the fundraising and partnership lead for the south west of England, joined as volunteer crew in 1980 aged 18. He received the letter about a month-and-a-half ago and said he did not expect it, adding it was a "great honour"."Everything I do is for the community, particularly lifesaving. It is a great honour for our patron King to honour me in this way," said Mr Nicoll."My mother and father were with the station, so I was out and about on the water from a young age. It was the obvious direction and in those days you got asked to join the crew. 
"As they say, the rest is history. I'm still here 43 years later and my daughter is also on the crew." He added: "The award isn't just for me. It is for all the volunteers I have worked with over the years."It is a team effort and without the team we can't do the lifesaving we do." Since electronic records began in 1994, Mr Nicoll has been involved in 820 launches, aided 864 people and has been directly involved in saving 46 lives. In 2001, he joined the staff as part of the fundraising team and has led several events including the Falmouth to St Ives Castle-to-Castle Swim, the Marazion Round the Mount Swim and the Falmouth International Sea Shanty Festival. 
Pamela Waters, 47, from Newquay, has been appointed an MBE for supporting primary schools across south-west England and on a national level. She has been the strategic lead of the Kernow Hub since 2018 and said she had recently moved into the role of strategic public. Speaking about her MBE, Ms Waters said: "I feel really proud, but also slightly embarrassed because I consider myself to just be a teacher."I was surprised and shocked, but also very proud."It is a really important piece of work, obviously it's not just me doing it. I have an amazing team who are working hard across our country and beyond supporting schools and working with young people to make sure they are learning to read. 
"That is an enjoyable journey and I'm really proud of the team and everyone who has worked for us in the past." She said it had been difficult to keep the news a secret from her family and colleagues, but said they would be really "pleased" for her.Under her leadership, the Kernow Hub has provided intensive support for 53 primary schools and medium level support to at least 193 primary schools across Cornwall, Devon and the Isles of Scilly  "Hopefully we have supported schools to be more effective in teaching early years how to read, and read early. I am really passionate about that and getting that right in the earliest stages of primary education," she said. 
Ms Water said she loved the penny-dropping moments”.She said: “You can see that click of recognition and see the child quickly make progress. That is really special."Children can make such quick progress with effective teaching and it really can make a difference for the rest of their lives." Sharron Adams, 48, has been appointed an MBE after she stepped up to provide management for two children's homes during the Covid-19 pandemic.  Ms Adams, from Par, is the registered manager of a children's home for disabled children and young people. She changed their ways of working to follow government guidance to inform and update risk assessments to keep children and staff safe.
Other people who were awarded a BEM include Sally Margaret Bourton, 60, from St Austell, is the postmistress for Trewoon and has been at the heart of Cornish community for 24 years.During Covid, she was instrumental in pulling together a list of local volunteers in the area who were willing to help the community and to distribute leaflets across the village.Sheila Ann Cholwill, 75, from Bude, is a community volunteer and fundraiser in Bridgerule, Devon, which includes a major fundraising for the Little Harbour Children's Hospice in St Austell.Sarah Jane Corbridge, 56, from Helston, is an active trustee at BF Adventure in Longdowns, Falmouth. It helps disadvantaged and disabled children in Cornwall to gain the skills and accreditations they need to succeed in school or find employment. Ian Jones, founder of Goonhilly Earth Station received an OBE for services to space communication.
Follow BBC Cornwall on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk.
