Four new council houses in Derby that generate more energy than they use have been hailed a "monumental achievement". 
Derby Homes, which runs the city's council housing, has recently finished building four two-bedroom homes, which are carbon negative.
They use solar panels, insulation and an air source heat pump to cut bills and emissions.
Derby City Council has said it hopes all its future buildings will be constructed to the same specification. 
The homes in Cummings Street, which have already been let out to tenants, are rated A for energy efficiency and produce -0.5 tonnes of carbon dioxide, which gives them a better rating than net-zero for carbon emissions. 
Chair of Derby Homes, Jsan Shepherd, said: "We didn't set out to build carbon negative properties, we just wanted to create solid, well-insulated houses that use the latest energy efficiency technology.
"We're investing in our existing stock too. We're improving insulation in some of our coldest properties, installing solar panels on roofs and protecting the local swift population by attaching boxes to homes for them to nest safely.
"I'm incredibly proud to be part of these innovative, forward-thinking projects and I'm excited to see how this changes the landscape of social housing for the better."
Councillor Shiraz Kahn, cabinet member for housing, property and regulatory services, said the project had also "delivered wider benefits" as the site where the homes had been built had previously been targeted by fly-tippers and was "using significant council resources to clear it regularly".
Councillor Carmel Swan, cabinet member for climate change, transport and sustainability, added: "To be building net-zero council houses is a monumental achievement and one the people of Derby should be so proud of.
"The project is partnership working at its very best and feeds into the council's 'Green City' focus area."
Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook, on X, or on Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk.
