AUCKLAND, New Zealand (AP) — Australia beat New Zealand by 27 runs under the Duckworth-Lewis system in the heavily rain-affected third T20 international Sunday to complete a 3-0 sweep the series and to harden its favoritism for the World Cup later this year. 
New Zealand captain Mitchell Santner won the toss in his 100th T20 international and sent Australia in, mindful the rain might dictate terms later in the match. It did.
Australia’s was interupted three times by rain breaks and finally terminated after 10.4 overs when it was 118-4. New Zealand was set 126 to win in 10 overs under the Duckworth-Lewis system, which seemed a relatively charitable target.
But New Zealand botched the run chase for the second time in three days at Eden Park, unable to conquer Australia’s world class attack.
Under the revised rules for the 10-over innings, Australia was allowed five bowlers who could bowl two overs each with a three-over power play.
The young left-armer Spencer Johnson took 1-10 from his two overs, showing why he made $1.4 million in the IPL auction earlier this year. Nathan Ellis conceded only 11 from his two overs, Mitchell Starc only 15 and Adam Zampa took 1-20.
Ellis bowled four dot balls to New Zealand’s biggest hitter, Glenn Philips, in the fifth over and at the midpoint of its innings New Zealand was 51-2, needing 75 from the last 30 balls.
Australia’s bowlers continued to bowl a tight line and length to frustrate the Black Caps batters and after Ellis bowled the ninth over for the cost of only 8 runs, New Zealand needed 43 off the last over to win.

        
    
The honor, or duty, of bowling the last over went to Matt Short who already had contributed for Australia, making 27 off 11 ball, batting at No. 3.
The first ball of the over went for six but the next three balls were singles, the fifth ball went for two and the last ball for a boundary as New Zealand fell hopelessly short.
“I think I feel most comfortable when I’m playing shots,” Short said. “It was a bit of a strange game because of the rain and being off and on.
“The aggressive way is the way we want to play our T20.”
Credit also goes to wicketkeeper Matthew Wade who took over the captaincy from Mitch Marsh and led Australia with great tactical insight in tricky conditions.
“Our bowlers were unbelievable today the way they came out and executed,” Wade said. “It’s as clinical a bowling performance as I’ve seen from an Australian unit and for Matt Short to come out and bat the way he did is exciting for the future.
“We’ve got depth in our squad and everyone’s enjoying their cricket.”
Australia should have been massively disadvantaged by the fact its innings was abruptly ended after only 10 overs when it had been playing for 20. But it already was in a powerful position.
Thanks to Short and to Travis Head, who made 33 from 30 balls, and Glenn Maxwell who made 20 off 9 after being dropped first ball, Australia already was 67-2 after its six-over power play.
New Zealand couldn’t match the clinical aggression of the Australian batters. Glenn Phillips and Mark Chapman faced most of the last five overs and simply couldn’t find a way to score consistent boundaries against the outstanding Australian attack.
Australia has demonstrated the ability to win in all circumstances in this series, including its 
thrilling final ball victory in the first match
, before an 
emphatic 72-run win in the second game
. 
“They’re obviously a quality side,” Santner said. “Their big three quicks and obviously the power they possess, I guess they showed us (how to play) throughout the series.
“The first one was a close one and I guess we got outplayed the last two.”
AP cricket: https://apnews.com/hub/cricket
