Czech Republic, Lithuania and Romania are all newly high on this year's World Happiness Report – and score especially high when it comes to happiness for people aged under 30.
When the annual World Happiness Report was released in March 2024, it was no surprise to see Scandinavian countries like Finland, Denmark, Iceland and Sweden continue to top the list. But in a surprising trend, a new set of countries has seen its rankings quietly, but steadily, march up the ranks.
Over the past three years, Central and Eastern European countries have overtaken some of their Western European neighbours in overall happiness, according to the survey. For the first time, the Czech Republic and Lithuania have cracked the top 20 this year, placing 18th and 19th respectively, with Slovenia closely chasing behind at number 21. (For comparison, the UK is ranked 20th, Germany is 24th, Spain is 36th and Italy is 41st)
What's especially interesting is that, in many of these countries, the bump is directly attributable to the growing happiness of younger residents. In fact, Lithuania ranks at number one in the report's Happiness of the Young report (as measured by respondents younger than 30), with Serbia at 3, Romania at 8, the Czech Republic at 10 and Slovenia at 15.
Residents and frequent travellers to the region aren't surprised. "There are more decent jobs at home, so [now] young people aren't moving to somewhere else in Europe to work," said Tim Leffel, author of The World's Cheapest Destinations. "The first time I went to Romania and Bulgaria a decade ago, some villages were full of only old people. Now you see a lot more mix in the ages. When more young people stick around, it makes everyone feel more hopeful about the future."
With GDP per capita sharply rising since the early 2000s, many Central and Eastern Europe residents now feel like they have an equal shot at happiness – an important overall indicator of wellbeing. In fact, the report found inequality of wellbeing has an even bigger effect on overall happiness than inequality of income.
Beyond economic growth, these countries are also investing in infrastructure, fostering vibrant cultural scenes and capitalising on their stunning natural beauty – from the sea-formed sand dunes of the Curonian Spit straddling Lithuania and Russia to the biodiverse Carpathian Mountains in Romania. The result is a palpable sense of optimism and excitement among locals.
To better understand this newfound happiness, we spoke to residents and recent travellers about their experiences in some of these countries, and where visitors can best experience this feeling for themselves.
Lithuania
Ranking 19th in the index overall and the very top for residents under age 30, Lithuania has seen marked improvements in quality of life over recent decades, report residents.
"Most people in Lithuania, especially younger generations, feel really happy," said Jurga Rubinovaite, who is Lithuanian and is the founder & CEO of the travel blog Full Suitcase. "Despite the war in Ukraine and constant talk on the news about the increasing possibility of war expanding to the Baltic States, people seem to be enjoying and appreciating life as never before."
She attributes this to the fact that people have been free to study, work and travel wherever they want since 1990, when Lithuania regained independence from the Soviet Union. "My mom often says, 'My life has never been so good as it is now'," said Rubinovaite. "The younger generations never experienced what life was like before Lithuania regained independence, but they all know the stories from their parents and grandparents. I think that's one of the reasons why people are happier now because they appreciate what they have more than ever before."
She also credits the country's maternity/paternity policies, which are some of the longest in the world (up to 126 paid days for mothers and 30 days for fathers), and large family networks to help take care of children.
Resident Raminta Lilaitė-Sbalbi finds happiness in the vibrant cultural scene of Vilnius, the country's capital. She especially likes its proximity to nature, inclusive community spirit and opportunities for creative expression and personal growth.
She points to important cultural events like the Lithuanian Song Festival, a Unesco World Heritage event marking its 100th anniversary this June and July. "It's a once-in-four-year opportunity to witness a massive concert of hundreds of choirs and thousands of people singing at once on a huge open-air stage," she explained. "The festival holds deep importance to us all due to its role in preserving Lithuania's national identity during times of Soviet occupation, which is why it was dubbed the 'singing revolution'."
The country's proximity to nature also offers an easy route to happiness via a better work-life balance. "Lithuanians love the outdoors," said Rubinovaite. "They take every opportunity they have to leave the city and enjoy the forests, the lakes and the beautiful seaside."
Lilaitė-Sbalbi recommends visitors check out hiking trails near Vilnius, such as Strėva Green Trail. "Its hill of springs [is home to streams that] don't freeze even in winter and it has a plantation of Lithuanian orchids on a small hill," she said. She also points to Karmazinai Nature Trail, a fascinating site of pagan rites and ancient burial grounds.
Romania
Though only ranking 32nd overall, Romania saw one of the world's largest jumps in happiness over the past decade, soaring from number 90 in the 2013 World Happiness Report. Again, the surge was driven primarily by young people, who put the country at number eight for respondents under 30.
Some experts attribute this optimism to increased freedom and opportunity. In March 2024, Bulgaria and Romania became the newest member states to join the EU's Schengen area, which guarantees free movement for citizens and visitors without border checks. Romania has also seen large investments in infrastructure, which have been improving quality of life for residents and travellers alike.
"Major highways and every town you visit – even small places like Targu Mures – all seem to be under construction," said Daniel Herszberg, founder of Travel Insighter website. With an approved infrastructure budget of €17bn for 2021-2027, Romania has been systematically implementing improvements, including 1,700 km of motorway construction, all at a much faster pace than was originally expected. But even in the midst of modern upgrades, tradition is still a draw for locals and travellers. "Romania boasts rich cultural diversity – from Saxon and Szekler (and other Hungarian) minorities to Romani and Romanian cultures," said current resident Alexandra Nima. "Transylvania, specifically, is worth considering if you are into affordable, quiet, pastoral surroundings filled with beautiful sights and art."
Herszberg agrees, and suggests taking a Transylvanian road trip to see the best of the region. Start at Cluj Napoca (the country's second-most populated city) to see its medieval castles (including Bonțida Bánffy Castle which is known as "the Versailles of Transylvania", located 30km to the north). Next, head 270km south to the smaller town of Brasov, surrounded by the Carpathian mountains, where you can explore its medieval Saxon walls and lively cafe culture.
The Czech Republic
Ranked 18th in happiness overall and 10th among respondents under 30, the Czech Republic has seen a resurgence of community and culture in recent years that has driven rising happiness levels.
"Apartments and living areas tend to be on the smaller side here, so it leads to a great importance placed on access to 'third spaces' such as parks, pubs and cafes," said Michael Rozenblit, founder of travel site The World Was Here First, who has lived in the nation's capital city of Prague for two years. "After the working day is over, you'll see families, couples and groups of friends descend on the green spaces in the city as if it's a communal back garden." Even in the cold weather, he says there is a convivial pub and cafe scene that is essential to Czech culture.
More like this: • Five standout cities making the world a better place • Five countries with the best work-life balance • Why does Canada have three of the world's most liveable cities?
This work-life balance is backed up by governmental policies, including guaranteed vacation days, comprehensive healthcare and maternal and paternal leave. "Most employee benefit programmes include access to sports, physical activities and even perks such as massages and wellness," said Mariko Amekodommo, an American who now lives in Prague and runs the culinary business Mariko Presents. "People are so happy here because it's a great standard of living."
Both Amekodommo and Leffel recommend venturing outside Prague to get a true sense of the culture and landscape. "Even a 30-minute train ride outside of the city can bring you to gorgeous castles, a monastery created from human bones and untouched nature," said Amekodommo. "A 15-minute walk from the city centre can bring you to a more relaxed vibe of locals."
Leffel, who recently explored the Pilzen and Spa Triangle areas of the Czech Republic, recommends travellers visit smaller towns like Olomouc, Brno and Plzeň that "offer a different insight into the Czech way of life". For beer lovers in particular, a visit to Plzeň's Pilsner Urquell brewery is a must-see. "It's a pilgrimage akin to a wine lover going to Bordeaux or a coffee lover making a journey to Ethiopia," he said.
The country's long beer heritage recently received international recognition, with the town of Žatec being inscribed on the Unesco World Heritage list for its long tradition of cultivating and processing hops, an essential ingredient in today's beer brewing.
Living In is a series from BBC Travel that discovers what it's like to reside in some of the world's top destinations.
--
If you liked this story, sign up for The Essential List newsletter – a handpicked selection of features, videos and can't-miss news delivered to your inbox every Friday.
For more Travel stories from the BBC, follow us on Facebook, X and Instagram.
