A wide variety of cinematic tastes were catered for at this year's Oscars, where Everything Everywhere All At Once dominated with seven wins, including best picture.
Find out more about the main winners and how to watch them in the UK. 
What's it about? - An unassuming launderette owner must hop through the multiverse, tapping into alternative versions of herself, in order to save the world.
Who's in it? - Michelle Yeoh, Ke Huy Quan, Stephanie Hsu and Jamie Lee Curtis. 
What did it win? - Best picture, actress for Yeoh, supporting actress for Curtis, supporting actor for Quan, director, original screenplay, film editing.
Where can I see it? - On Amazon Prime Video, or it can be rented or bought from on-demand stores like Google Play, YouTube, Apple TV and Curzon.
What's it about? - An idealistic young German soldier is confronted with the increasingly brutal realities of World War One, in this adaptation of the 1928 novel by Erich Maria Remarque.
Who's in it? - Felix Kammerer, Albrecht Schuch and Daniel Brühl.
What did it win? - Best international feature, original score, cinematography, production design.
Where can I see it? - On Netflix.
What's it about? - A morbidly obese professor attempts to repair his relationship with his teenage daughter as his health declines.
Who's in it? - Brendan Fraser, Sadie Sink and Hong Chau.
What did it win? - Best actor for Fraser, make-up and hairstyling.
Where can I see it? - In cinemas, or it can be rented from on-demand stores.
What's it about? - A group of women in an isolated Mennonite colony debate whether they should leave en masse after several of them are drugged and raped by the community's men.
Who's in it? - Rooney Mara, Claire Foy, Jessie Buckley and Ben Whishaw.
What did it win? - Best adapted screenplay.
Where can I see it? - In cinemas.
What's it about? - A carpenter brings a wooden boy to life against the backdrop of Fascist Italy, but young Pinocchio finds his nose grows whenever he lies.
Who voices the characters? - Ewan McGregor, Tilda Swinton, Cate Blanchett, Gregory Mann and David Bradley.
What did it win? - Best animated feature.
Where can I see it? - On Netflix.
What's it about? - The story of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny, who nearly died in 2020 when he was poisoned with a Novichok nerve agent, and has been in jail since 2021.
What did it win? - Best documentary feature.
Where can I see it? - It can be rented or bought from on-demand stores.
What's it about? - Dazzling action epic RRR - short for Rise, Roar, Revolt - is a historical fantasy telling the story of two revolutionaries who fight British rule in India.
Who's in it? - Telugu-language superstars Ram Charan and Jr NTR.
What did it win? - Best song for Naatu Naatu.
Where can I see it? - On Netflix.
What's it about? - After 30 years of service, fighter pilot Maverick must train a young group of graduates for a high-profile mission. One of them is the resentful Rooster, the son of Goose - a main character from the original film.
Who's in it? - Tom Cruise, Miles Teller, Jennifer Connelly, Jon Hamm and Val Kilmer.
What did it win? - Best sound.
Where can I see it? - On Paramount+ and Now Cinema, or can be bought from on-demand stores.
What's it about? - Following King T'Challa's death, invading forces from around the world target Wakanda's vibranium, unleashing chaos. Queen Ramonda, Shuri, M'Baku, Okoye and the Dora Milaje must fight to protect the kingdom.
Who's in it? - Letitia Wright, Lupita Nyong'o and Angela Bassett.
What did it win? - Best costume design.
Where can I see it? - On Disney+, or can be bought from on-demand stores.
What's it about? - Jake Sully, Neytiri and their family join a reef tribe and must defend themselves against an attack from humans that threatens the existence of the Na'vi people on the planet Pandora.
Who voices the characters? - Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldaña and Sigourney Weaver.
What did it win? - Best visual effects.
Where can I see it? - In cinemas.
What's it about? - An animated adaptation of Charlie Mackesy's heartwarming and best-selling illustrated story of friendship, courage and cake.
Who voices the characters? - Tom Hollander, Idris Elba and Gabriel Byrne.
What did it win? - Best animated short film.
Where can I see it? - On BBC iPlayer.
What's it about? - A black comedy about two estranged brothers who are thrown together again after their mother's untimely death.
Who's in it? - James Martin, Seamus O'Hara and Michelle Fairley.
What did it win? - Best live action short film.
Where can I see it? - On BBC iPlayer.
