JUNEAU — A 53-year-old Hustisford man was sentenced on Friday to 35 years in prison for repeatedly sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl.
In addition, Dodge County Circuit Court Judge Steven Bauer ordered that Steven Baran serve an additional 15 years of extended supervision. Bauer said during the sentencing that Baran will “probably die in prison.”
“Baran has no remorse and cannot be rehabilitated,” Assistant District Attorney Yolanda Tienstra said during the sentencing. “This sentence ensures that he will die in prison, which is exactly what should happen.”
Following a two-day jury trial, Baran was found guilty Dec. 12 of first-degree sexual assault of child.
On June 29, 2015, Hartford police officers met with Baran, who said he wanted to turn himself in for raping a girl seven years earlier. According to the criminal complaint, he told officers that the assault had been “weighing heavy on him.”
Baran told officers that in 2008 he was living with a couple and their two children in Hustisford. Baran allegedly admitted to having sexual intercourse with the female child who was then 12. Baran allegedly admitted to sexually assaulting the girl five or six more times over the course of three months.
According to the criminal complaint, Baran asked officers to take him into custody immediately because he was feeling the urge to have sex and felt that he may rape again. When asked how he might select a victim, Baran allegedly said he would probably go to a local park or meet someone on the street. He allegedly said he did not care if the victim was an adult or child.

        
    
Officers made contact with the victim who told officers that she was sexually assaulted by Baran. She said that she was raped by Baran at least 75 times. The victim said that Baran was unemployed and had many health issues which is why he resided with her family for at least six years.
The victim said she never disclosed the sexual acts because Baran threatened her and threatened to kill her parents if she told anyone what happened.
“Steven Baran is a remorseless child sex predator,” Dodge County District Attorney Kurt Klomberg said. “Thanks to the hard work and dedication of assistant district attorney Tienstra, he will never hurt another child.”
