Gasps and sighs of relief came from the packed courtroom Wednesday when 9th District Judge Timothy Day sentenced Mark Daniel Byerly to a year in jail.
During a weeklong trial and nine hours of deliberations in July, a jury found the 57-year-old guilty of aggravated assault, domestic battery, strangulation of a household member, two counts of violating a protection order and intimidating a witness. They acquitted him of six other charges.
He has been out of jail awaiting his sentence, but he was taken into custody Wednesday afternoon.
During Byerly’s sentencing hearing Tuesday and Wednesday, Day heard almost six hours of testimony from witnesses, investigators and attorneys on both sides of the case.
“We’ve taken quite a bit of time in this case,” Day said. “And we should. It’s a big deal.”
Day commented on the rare occurrence of having so many people in his courtroom during a sentencing.
“It’s really unusual to have this many people involved in the process,” Day said.
Day sentenced Byerly to a year in Teton County Jail and seven years of intensive supervised probation with a suspended sentence, meaning he could go to prison if he violates the court’s terms.
“This was not just a ‘he said, she said’ case,” Day said. “The victim’s injuries from the aggravated battery were corroborated.”
Throughout the hearing, Byerly’s supporters pleaded with Day to give a sentence of probation.

        
    
“I cannot think of a single case in my tenure where a person convicted of a violent felony has not only been incarcerated but they’ve gone to prison,” Day said.
Byerly could have been sent to state prison for 25 years.
But instead of sending Byerly to the state penitentiary, Day sentenced him to the local jail, which Day said better allows defendants to rehabilitate.
“No one is above the law, and that includes, in this case, Mr. Byerly,” Day said.
In emotional testimony Wednesday, the victim addressed the court, the suspect and the suspect’s family.
“I ended the relationship countless times only to be sucked back in,” she said. “If you think I’ve done this for the drama and the attention, you are sadly mistaken.”
The victim, who was in an on-and-off relationship with Byerly since 2011, spoke of several drunken episodes in which Byerly flung her against the wall or threw household items at her. She called him a “master manipulator” and a “violent, dangerous man.”
“The next woman he abuses may not live long enough to testify against him,” she said.
The victim’s daughter also told the court she had to move out because of Byerly’s drunken episodes.
“He would get extremely intoxicated. His manipulation and control of our mom turned into abuse,” she said. “This community is safer with Mr. Byerly in a correctional facility.”
The victim, her family and the prosecutor were satisfied with the decision.
“I can’t say I’m happy,” the victim told the Jackson Hole Daily after the hearing. “I’m pleased Mark is locked up.”
The case, from beginning to end, lasted almost two years.
“It’s over,” special prosecutor Austin Dunlap told the victim when she embraced him in a hug. “Hang in there.”
“Thank you, thank you,” the victim said. “You did an amazing job. It’s done. It’s over.”
Byerly can appeal within 30 days of the judgment and sentence being filed.
[Even if they have testified or their names are public, the Jackson Hole Daily does not publish the names of victims in domestic violence cases. — Ed.]
