BUTTE — A Butte man who pleaded guilty to raping a 15-year-old girl in 2015 and giving her herpes was sentenced to 30 years in the Montana State Prison on Thursday in Butte district court by Judge Kurt Krueger.
Richard McLarnon, 36, was arrested in November of 2015 for engaging in sexual acts with a minor under the age of 16 between April and November of that year at his home and elsewhere.
Charged with three counts of child sex crimes, McLarnon pleaded not guilty in December and spent the next year trying to fight the charges. In November 2016 he pleaded guilty to one count of rape.
The probation and parole officer who prepared McLarnon’s pre-sentencing investigation testified Thursday that McLarnon gave “mixed signals” in an interview to determine whether he took responsibility for his actions. He said McLarnon told him there was no force and that she wanted to have sex, and that he knew she was under the age of consent.
The victim’s mother prepared a statement to the court that was read by a cousin, who said the victim was overwhelmed by grief and trauma. She said the victim was friends with the family and met him when she was 12, and that he groomed her to be raped.
She said the victim still had nightmares of the rapes that destroyed her childhood and teenage years, and is home-schooled after being bullied at school for rumors. She said the victim is not the person she used to be, and that the herpes medication she must now take serves as a constant reminder of her trauma.

        
    
Deputy County Attorney Ann Shea said McLarnon still doesn’t take responsibility for his actions, and asked Judge Krueger to sentence him to 30 years in the state prison, twice what was recommended in the pre-sentencing report. Shea said that prison sentence would still be easier than the victim’s life.
McLarnon’s defense attorney Victor Bunitsky said his client had no prior criminal history, and that a child rape sentence is “a tough way to begin your criminal career.” Bunitsky asked for leniency considering McLarnon made an open plea instead of going to trial, and requested 15 years with the Department of Corrections with 11 suspended.
“You have given your victim a sentence as well,” Krueger said before sentencing McLarnon to 30 years in the state prison with 10 suspended and 520 days time served. McLarnon must also register as a Tier 1 sex offender.
