South Western Ambulance Service (SWASFT) has declared a "critical incident" due to "extreme pressures".
It tweeted that "some patients may wait longer for an ambulance" after it got 3,200 calls on Saturday, a 2021 record.
It advised patients "to access alternative services if their call is not life-threatening" and urged people to "make the right call".
SWASFT said it was expecting more than 3,000 calls on Sunday, compared with 2,650 on a "normal" day.
On Thursday, the service revealed the number of incidents it dealt with every day had risen to 2,913 in the previous week, from 2,627 before the easing of lockdown restrictions on 17 May.
It said people should only call 999 for an ambulance in a medical emergency, for example if someone has stopped breathing, has fallen unconscious or has serious bleeding.
People with non-life threatening but urgent problems like broken bones, sprains or burns should contact NHS 111.
"Inappropriate use of the 999 service puts unnecessary additional pressure on limited ambulance resources, and can delay emergency care to those most in need," it said.
Lead paramedic Ed Hill said: "With the nice weather and people going out with friends and family, we are asking the public to help us and that they are only calling 999 for genuine life-threatening emergencies.
"We are trying to save 999 ambulances for those that need us the most."
He also advised people to be prepared and take some pain relief medication or a first aid kit with them when heading out.
"We are asking people to think what they can do to take responsibility and help themselves as well," he said.
Follow BBC News South West on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk.
Are you based in the affected area? Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways:
If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission. 
