LOS ANGELES (AP) — Follow along for live updates in 
the final round
 of the 123rd U.S. Open at 
Los Angeles Country Club
.
___
Wyndham Clark has won the U.S. Open for his first major championship, beating Rory McIlroy by one shot at Los Angeles Country Club.
The 29-year-old from Denver was playing in just his seventh major and had never finished better than 75th. His even-par 70 was good enough to outlast four-time major champion McIlroy, who also shot 70.
Clark finished at 10-under 270. He tapped in for the victory, pumped his fists, hugged his caddie and then covered his face with his cap.
World No. 1 Scottie Scheffler also shot 70 and finished third, three shots back.
Clark had three early birdies to pull away from Rickie Fowler, who either shared the lead or had it outright through the first three rounds. Fowler shot 75 and faded to a tie for fifth.
___
— Fowler, McIlroy, Scheffler 
headline the final round
 in a U.S. Open full of possibilities
— Late three-putt 
drops Fowler into tie
 for lead heading into final round
— Dark finish 
perplexes U.S. Open co-leader
 Clark
— Scheffler 
gets into mix
 with late-round fireworks
— Unknown Nagano 
making a name for himself
 with great play at the U.S. Open
___
Rickie Fowler has set the record for birdies in a U.S. Open with 23.
He set the mark on his 68th hole at Los Angeles Country Club, but was still trailing Wyndham Clark by five shots at the time. Fowler has made 16 bogeys to go along with all those birdies.

        
    
Fowler made the record birdie putt from 10 feet on the par-5 14th hole, his second birdie of the day. He had made five bogeys in the final round to that point.
The previous record for birdies in a U.S. Open was 22 by Brendan Steele at Erin Hills in 2017.
Fowler and Clark started the day tied at 10 under, with Rory McIlroy a shot behind.
___
The last group is on the course for the final round of the U.S. Open at Los Angeles Country Club, and Wyndham Clark has birdied the par-5 first hole to take a one-shot lead over Rickie Fowler and Rory McIlroy.
Clark hit a beautiful chip from just off the green to within 2 1/2 feet to set up his birdie. Fowler, who shared the third-round lead with Clark at 10-under, parred the first hole. They’re both looking for their first major win.
Four-time major winner McIlroy also birdied the opening hole. McIlroy just missed his 33-foot try for eagle.
___
Wyndham Clark has a one-shot lead over Rory McIlroy with nine holes left in the U.S. Open at Los Angeles Country Club.
Clark played the front nine in 1 under and was 11 under for the championship as he made the turn.
The 29-year-old from Denver is seeking to win first major. He is playing in only his seventh major and has never finished higher than 75th. Clark had three early birdies to pull away from Rickie Fowler, who either shared the lead or had it outright through the first three rounds. Fowler, who also has never won a major, bogeyed three of his first seven holes.
Clark also survived an encounter with LACC’s unique barranca on No. 8, needing two shots to emerge from the tall grass near the green. His first attempt to chop out of it went just 8 inches. 
Tommy Fleetwood is on his way to another low number at the U.S. Open.
Fleetwood holed a long eagle putt on the par-5 14th hole for his second eagle of the round. He’s now at 8-under par for his round with three holes remaining. The closing three holes are among the toughest at Los Angeles Country Club. Even so, he has a chance to join the barrage of record scoring for this U.S. Open.
Fleetwood five years ago matched the U.S. Open record with a 63 in the final round at Shinnecock Hills. That’s no longer the record because Rickie Fowler and Xander Schauffele each had a 62 in the first round at LACC.
The sun was trying to break through the marine layer over Beverly Hills with the leaders still 30 minutes away from starting the final round.
___
The U.S. Open is up for grabs, and there are low scores available early in the final round.
At about the same time co-leaders Rickie Fowler and Wyndham Clark were arriving at Los Angeles Country Club for their afternoon tee times, PGA Tour rookie Austin Eckroat was making the turn after a record-tying 29 on the front nine.
Eckroat eagled the par-5 eighth hole to post the sixth 29 in U.S. Open history. The fifth came a day earlier by Tom Kim.
Eckroat vaulted into eighth place as he headed to the back nine. He was still six shots behind Clark and Fowler, each of whom will start at 10 under and are seeking their first major title.
One shot behind the leaders is Rory McIlroy, who is looking for his first major since 2014. World No. 1 Scottie Scheffler starts the day three shots out of the lead.
AP golf: 
https://apnews.com/hub/golf
 and 
https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
