The Ministry of Defence (MoD) has proposed to build a rehearsal hall with a roof garden at Wellington Barracks, council documents suggest. 
It would involve bulldozing the existing hall, which it described as being too small for purpose and not meeting health and safety standards.
A spokesperson for the MoD said the existing hall, near Buckingham Palace, had been "damaging" its reputation.
Under the plans, a larger, more eco-friendly building will take its place.
The facilities are used by the bands of the Foot Guards, which include the Grenadier Guards, the Coldstream Guards, the Scots Guards, the Irish Guards and the Welsh Guards.
The new development would consist of three interlinked buildings with pitched, bronze-clad, lantern-style roofs, sat above clerestory glazing, which involves large windows set higher than eye level. 
The exterior would be lime-washed brick and 3m (about 9ft) taller than at present.
The proposal said that the Army had recognised parts of its estate were in "poor condition" and it was committed to improving substandard facilities "as a priority". 
Despite one objector citing noise concerns, the council backed the plan, saying the current site did not meet health and safety standards and was too small for the bands based there.
"This proposal to redevelop the rehearsal hall is necessary to improve this infrastructure," the Westminster City Council document said.
"The proposed enhancement of the Wellington Barracks band-practice facilities is considered acceptable in heritage, townscape, design, land-use, amenity, environmental, basement-development and highway terms. The application is recommended for approval subject to conditions."
Conditions include that bands only practise in the hall between 8am and 8pm. Westminster City councillors will review the application at a meeting on 19 March.
Photos of the existing site show a small, outdated interior, faulty outside stairs and a rest area with no natural light.
The rehearsal hall is on the eastern edge of Wellington Barracks, wedged between the Ministry of Justice and a block of 1980s-built accommodation. 
Though the barracks contain Grade II listed buildings, the rehearsal hall is unlisted.
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
