A lack of PPE during the Covid pandemic meant some GPs wore repurposed bin bags for aprons, a public inquiry has heard. 
Dr Chris Williams, deputy chairman of the Royal College of GPs, told the Scottish Covid Inquiry that doctors felt they did not have the "tools for the job" early on in the pandemic. 
Dr Williams said there was a feeling the PPE guidance was based on what was available rather than appropriate.
Some GPs also bought higher-grade face masks online instead of using NHS ones.
Scotland's Covid public inquiry is investigating what happened during the country's response to the pandemic and work out what lessons can be learned for future public health emergencies.
The supply and distribution of personal protective equipment (PPE) is one focus of the independent probe and the Royal College of GPs gave evidence that it was an area of concern for some of its members. 
Dr Williams, who works at a surgery in the Highlands, said he heard "lots of expressions of anxiety and nervousness about PPE".
He added: "I had experience of aprons that were repurposed bin bags; not easy to put on and take off without shedding droplets.
"Some of these [PPE] items were not at the level we hoped for. There were many instances where people did not have a full set of PPE."
He added: "We felt as if the guidance we were given about PPE was tailored to what was available. I don't think there was confidence that they had the right armour on - the right tools for the job."
Dr Williams said members of the community dropping off handmade masks and painters overalls helped to bolster supplies of PPE.
In the first few months of the Covid pandemic there were reports of shortages of some coronavirus protective equipment in the NHS.
It came at a time when global demand for items such as gloves and masks was at unprecedented levels.
In 2021, it was revealed more than one billion items of PPE had been issued by Scotland's health service since the start of the pandemic. 
Dr Carey Lunan, a former chairwoman of the Royal College of GPs, told the inquiry there were "concerns about the quality, quantity and reliability" of PPE supplies.
She added: "At the time there was a lot of concern among members about - is this the right level of PPE for the work we are doing?
"Many GPs chose to purchase their own [higher grade] FFP3 masks because they did not feel adequately assured that the fluid-resistance masks [issued by the NHS] would give them adequate protection."
The inquiry before Lord Brailsford continues. 
