DALLAS (AP) — Justin Faulk, Ryan O’Reilly and Vladimir Tarasenko all scored in the third period as the St. Louis Blues beat Dallas 4-1 on Tuesday night to snap the Stars’ eight-game home winning streak.
Colton Parayko also scored and Charlie Lindgren, a recent call-up from Springfield of the American Hockey League with No. 1 netminder Jordan Binnington in COVID-19 protocol, made 33 saves to improve to 4-0-0 with a 1.29 goals-against average.
Riley Damiani, called up from Texas of the AHL on Tuesday, scored in his NHL debut and Jake Oettinger stopped 24 shots for the Stars, who have lost four straight overall.
Tyler Bozak and Faulk returned after missing seven and six games, respectively, while in the protocol. Faulk skated forward along the right boards and whistled a tiebreaking shot through traffic over Oettinger’s right shoulder at 2:07 of the third.
“It makes it a lot easier for myself and Bozie to come back in the lineup when you slide in seamlessly when the team’s playing well,” Faulk said.
Lindgren has stopped 87 of 91 shots in four appearances and three starts.
“Team’s playing well, got a great group of guys,” he said. “Winning always makes everything a blast.”
O’Reilly gave the Blues a two-goal lead at 11:33, scoring in the final minute of a four-minute high-sticking penalty called on Radek Faksa.
Tarasenko added another power-play goal at 18:43.
After 35 scoreless minutes, the teams traded goals within 66 seconds late in the second period. Damiani finished a strong shift, scoring on his third chance on a backdoor wrister from a cross-crease pass by John Klingberg at 15:57 for his first NHL goal.

        
    
“Klinger made a great play,” said Damiani, who was Dallas’ fifth-round selection in the 2018 draft held at American Airlines center. “I think he’d be pretty mad if I missed that one.”
At 17:03, Parayko collected a loose puck to the right of the crease after Oettinger made a save on Tarasenko and backhanded the puck into the open side to tie the score at 1.
Lindgren’s mask came loose multiple times, showing his long hair, mustache and mutton-chop sideburns.
“Darren Pang (a Blues TV announcer) calls me Chuckie Sideburns,” Lindgren said. “I just like the look. Simple as that. Kind of bringing back the ’70s, ‘80s look and havin’ a blast doing it.”
IN AND OUT … AND IN AND OUT
After St. Louis’ Matthew Peca scored on a rebound at 8:05 of the first period, a conference of the two referees ruled the goal no good for a distinct kicking motion – pending an official review in Toronto. The league office ruled the goal good, after which the Dallas bench challenged for the Blues being offside after the puck briefly left their offensive zone. And offside it was, negating the goal for good.
Dallas’ goalie glut is no more. On Tuesday, Anton Khudobin cleared waivers and was assigned to Texas of the American Hockey League and Ben Bishop, 35, confirmed his playing days are over because of a knee injury, though he’s under contract through next season. That leaves Braden Holtby, who signed as a free agent in July, and Oettinger, who will turn 23 on Saturday.
Bishop grew up in St. Louis and began his NHL career with the Blues. He was recognized during the first period.
“When your knee tells you you can’t, it’s tough,” Bishop said Tuesday morning.
NOTES: Lindgren and Oettinger are both from Lakeville, Minnesota, and both were born on Dec. 18. Lindgren will turn 28 this weekend. … Oettinger is 12-2-5 at American Airlines Center. ... Damiani and Ty Dellandrea were recalled from Texas with three Stars forwards ill or injured. That included Roope Hintz, the team leader with 11 goals. … The Blues also had a forward make his NHL debut. Alexei Toropchenko was a fourth-round draft pick in 2017 and played 8:19. … Australian national Nathan Walker, another recent AHL call-up for the Blues, had an assist, giving him four goals and two assists in four games. … The teams will complete a home-and-home series Friday in St. Louis.
Blues: Will host Dallas on Friday for the first time since 2019-20, when they went 2-0-1 at home against the Stars.
Stars: Friday’s game at Enterprise Center will begin a back-to-back for Dallas ending Saturday at home against Chicago.
More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
