While lawyers for former U.S. Rep. Chaka Fattah assert the correct sentencing guidelines for Fattah should be between 11 and 14 years rather than the 17 to 21 years the prosecution has requested, an anonymous group of his former staffers have created a website declaring Fattah did not get a fair trial.
The former staffers are basing their assertion largely on the mystery of a dismissed 12th juror. Juror Number 12 has said he was not refusing to deliberate on Fattah’s guilt, but had already decided the prosecution didn’t do enough to link Fattah to the $1 million loan at the center of the case.
Court filings on the juror’s dismissal are sealed.
However, The Philadelphia Inquirer reported on a court filing in which Fattah’s attorneys are asking for lower sentencing guidelines and an even lower sentence. The congressman is scheduled to face U.S. District Judge Harvey Bartle III for sentencing Monday.
“As a legislator, he made the education of disadvantaged youth his life’s work,” Fattah’s attorney Mark Lee wrote in the filing. “And as a mentor and role model, Chaka Fattah inspired countless young men and women to service and self-improvement.”
Late Monday, federal prosecutors announced they are asking for the two decade sentence for Fattah for bribery, racketeering and other related convictions that stem from an illicit $1 million mayoral campaign loan.
Fattah was convicted in July of more than 20 counts on charges that the former congressman orchestrated a scheme of misusing taxpayer dollars and federal grants to pay back a campaign loan made during his 2007 Philadelphia mayoral campaign.

        
    
The charges also included accepting bribes in exchange for political favors, like $18,000 from Herbert Vederman, disguised as payment for a car that remained at the Fattah residence, though the title to the vehicle was in Vederman’s name. In exchange for the money, Fattah was to help Vederman obtain a coveted ambassadorship.
“Fattah sought to strengthen himself politically, enrich himself and his co-conspirators, steal from non-profits and the federal taxpayers, and defraud his campaigns, their creditors and a credit union,” theAssociated Press reported Justice Department lawyer Eric L. Gibson wrote in a filing on Monday.
Attorney Kevin Harden, president of the Barristers’ Association of Philadelphia said the sentence sought by prosecutors is within federal sentencing guidelines, and he expected the government to request that amount of time for Fattah.
“Its not uncommon for prosecutors to ask for aggravated sentences when an individual takes a case to trial and shows no remorse,” he said.
The recommended sentence also falls within the government’s fraud loss guidelines, which uses the amount a defendant tried to defraud to determine their time in jail said Harden.
“The government’s theory involves the loss of tax dollars totaling approximately half a million dollars,” he added.
Fattah, an 11-term congressman who worked in government for more than three decades, ran unsuccessfully for mayor of Philadelphia in 2007, stifled in part by the city’s regulations on campaign donations.
He accepted a $1 million loan from former Sallie Mae CEO Albert Lord II. To pay back the debt, Fattah was convicted of using federal grant money designated for nonprofits. He was also found guilty of using campaign funds to help pay off some of his son Chaka “Chip” Fattah Jr.’s college debt.
Gregory Naylor, Fattah’s former chief of staff and Tom Lindenfeld, former strategist for Fattah, pleaded guilty to related charges.
Three more Fattah associates, another former chief of staff Bonnie Bowser, Robert Brand, a consultant and husband of a former Fattah staffer, and Karen Nichols, CEO of the Fattah-founded Educational Advancement Alliance nonprofit, were also convicted.
On Tuesday, unnamed former Fattah congressional staffers released a report stating that he did not.
They set up a website, 
thefattahcase.com
, to make their report and the 300 page court filing they used to create the report, public and easily accessible.
After an August Philly Voice report questioned whether the 12th juror should have been dismissed and whether the congressman’s trial should’ve resulted in a hung jury, the staffers began to analyze discrepancies in Fattah’s case, a release said.
In that report, the anonymous Juror Number 12 is described as a former paratrooper in the U.S. Army (to challenge any assertions that he’s just an anti-government dissonant) and a current Lancaster Country resident.
Juror No. 12 was dismissed, he said, after remaining the hold out vote during two days of deliberation.
“It was 11-1 for five hours straight waiting for me to change my mind,” the dismissed juror told the Philly Voice. “I said, ‘I’ll hang the jury. I’m not gonna change my mind.’ ”
It was then, he said, that the jury foreman accused him of refusing to deliberate, slid a note to the judge, and soon thereafter he was replaced with an alternate juror who helped convict Fattah.
The juror maintains he did not feel the prosecution presented enough evidence to prove Fattah was involved with the $1 million loan in question.
After Fattah was convicted and the staffers, many of whom were interviewed by the prosecution and could not discuss the trial while it was taking place, read presiding Judge Harvey Bartle III’s post-verdict memorandum, they began discussing their perspectives.
“We know first hand – up close and personal if you will – what kind of man [Fattah] is, his true character,” the anonymous staffers said in the release. “We want to see justice carried out fairly and this is something we think we can do to help.”
Among the discrepancies during Fattah’s trial, the staffers’ report points to “a rush to a result.”
There, they compare the time passed between indictment, trial and scheduled sentencing for Fattah—he was indicted in July 2015, had a May trial and has a scheduled Dec. 12 sentencing—to that of other similarly embroiled politicians like former Senator Vince Fumo who was indicted for various corruption counts in Feb. 2007 and sentenced to five years in prison more than two years later in 2009.
“Cases all have lives of their own depending on different styles of cases,” Harden said. “Congressman Fattah, his case was very long given fact that he asserted several congressional privileges and I wouldn’t categorize this as abnormal.”
Another piece of Fattah’s legal puzzle that makes his case unique, and perhaps unfair, staffers said, is that the case was established using the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act or (RICO). Staffers note other public officials with similar records of public service including former State Sen. Vince Fumo and Sen. Robert Menendez were also indicted for public corruption on multiple counts but only Fattah was charged using RICO.
Philadelphia mob lawyer Joseph Santaguida told The Tribune he’s not sure if Fattah’s crimes fall within the RICO statute, but he does not believe he should receive as much time as the prosecution is asking.
“[RICO is] like when an illegal organization infiltrates a legal profession,” Santaguida said, “which would be like let’s say the mafia started a law firm. I don’t know if Fattah did that.
“RICO is so wide,” he added, “it’s possible that many things fall within its bounds.”
Still, he said of the 17 to 21 year sentencing request, “It’s like a life sentence for him and I don’t think he did anything that deserves a life sentence.”
