CINCINNATI (AP) — Lane Thomas hit his second homer of the game in the 10th inning to seal the Washington Nationals’ 6-3 victory over the Cincinnati Reds on Friday night.
Thomas’ two-run shot, his team-leading 18th of the season, came off closer Alexis Díaz (3-3) and followed a run-scoring double by Jake Alu that broke a 3-3 tie.
A two-run homer by Joey Meneses off Reds starter Graham Ashcraft tied it in the eighth. The Reds had led since the first inning behind strong pitching from Ashcraft and three solo homers.
Nick Senzel and Matt McLain homered on back-to-back pitches from Nationals starter Patrick Corbin with one out in the first.
Then Elly De La Cruz rocketed a line drive into the left-field seats to put the Reds up 3-0 in the third. His ninth homer of the season was also the first one he’s hit from the right side of the plate.
Andres Machado (2-0) got two outs in the eighth for the victory. Kyle Finnegan got the Reds in order in the 10th inning for his 16th save.
ARLINGTON, Texas (AP) — Adolis García hit two drastically different solo homers, Corey Seager also went deep and newly acquired left-hander Jordan Montgomery worked into the seventh inning to help Texas beat Miami.
Garcia put the Rangers ahead to stay when he went the opposite way with a high-arching 334-foot homer just inside the right-field pole for a 3-2 lead in the third. In the sixth, the slugger known as “El Bombi” hit a 433-foot drive that landed in the second deck of seats above the visitors bullpen in left-center. His 27th and 28th homers of the season increased his AL-leading RBI total to 88.

        
    
A day after three-time Cy Young Award winner Max Scherzer won in his first game with the Rangers, their other new starter acquired before the trade deadline struck out six, walked one and allowed two runs before leaving two batters into the seventh. Texas got Montgomery (7-9) and reliever Chris Stratton from St. Louis on Sunday.
Josh Sborz then faced only three batters to get out of the seventh before Stratton pitched two scoreless innings.
Marlins starter Jesús Luzardo (8-6) struck out eight over 5 1/3 innings. The lefty gave up four runs and six hits.
Texas maintained its 1 1/2-game AL West lead over reigning World Series champion Houston.
CHICAGO (AP) — Max Fried dominated through six innings in his return from a strained left forearm, Sean Murphy and Marcell Ozuna homered on back-to-back pitches in Atlanta’s seven-run fourth inning and the Braves cooled off Chicago.
Fried allowed three baserunners, all on singles, in his first start since May 5
Austin Riley added a deep solo shot in the seventh for major league-leading Atlanta, which has won three straight and six of seven.
Fried (3-1), a runner-up for the NL Cy Young Award last season, struck out eight before exiting after 72 pitches. The wiry 29-year-old left-hander retired the first 12 with no hard contact before Cody Bellinger singled to lead off the fifth.
Chicago starter Kyle Hendricks (4-6) allowed seven runs on eight hits in four innings. The Cubs entered having won three straight and 13 of 16.
BALTIMORE (AP) — James McCann had three hits and five RBIs and Jordan Westburg hit a three-run homer to help Baltimore rout the Mets in New York manager Buck Showalter’s return to Camden Yards.
Showalter received a video tribute and a standing ovation from the fans in Baltimore, where he managed from 2010-2018 and guided the Orioles to three postseason appearances. Then the AL East leaders won for the sixth time in eight games to stay two ahead of Tampa Bay.
Ryan O’Hearn hit an RBI single off Phil Bickford (2-4) to break a 2-all tie in the sixth — Westburg, who was running on the pitch, scored all the way from first. McCann added a two-run double later in the inning, and Adley Rutschman hit a sacrifice fly.
Mike Baumann (9-0) was the winner.
SAN DIEGO (AP) — Chris Taylor and pinch-hitter J.D. Martinez drew consecutive bases-loaded walks during a Padres bullpen meltdown in the five-run eighth inning that lifted NL West-leading Los Angeles to its sixth straight victory against San Diego.
The Dodgers won their fourth straight game overall and kept the Padres from reaching .500 for the first time since May 11. Since losing 5-2 to the Padres on May 5, the Dodgers have outscored the Padres 29-12 in the six straight wins.
Rookie center fielder James Outman had a big game for the Dodgers, robbing star Fernando Tatis Jr. of a homer with a spectacular leaping catch and then connecting for his 13th homer.
Ryan Brasier (3-0) got the win and Evan Phillips earned his 14th save.
Robert Suarez (1-1) allowed five runs on two hits and three walks while getting just two outs on a career-high 33 pitches in the eighth.
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Eugenio Suárez provided the go-ahead run in the eighth inning and set a Seattle franchise record with his 10th straight game with an RBI as the Mariners beat Los Angeles in a slugfest where the teams combined for seven home runs.
Ty France, Dylan Moore, Julio Rodríguez and Cal Raleigh went deep for Seattle, which had its sixth four-homer game of the season. The Mariners have won three straight and five of their last six.
Luis Rengifo, Mike Moustakas and Mickey Moniak homered for the Angels. They have lost four straight.
Suárez put Seattle up 8-7 with a base hit up the middle off Reynaldo López (2-6) to bring home Rodriguez. Suárez broke the previous consecutive RBI mark of nine, which was set by Edgar Martinez in 1995. Raleigh provided some insurance with a solo shot in the ninth.
Los Angeles got its first two runners aboard in the ninth off Matt Brash, but Shohei Ohtani and C.J. Cron struck out and Mike Moustakas flew out to left to end the game to give Brash his second save. Justin Topa (2-3) got the win with a scoreless seventh inning.
NEW YORK (AP) — Yainer Diaz hit a three-run homer in the first inning off a struggling Luis Severino, Yordan Alvarez homered in the fifth to knock out the right-hander and Houston beat New York.
Rookie Hunter Brown (8-7) won consecutive starts for the first time since April, allowing two runs and five hits in six innings. Brown struck out four, walked one and got eight groundouts — three on the first pitch.
Kyle Tucker added a two-out two-run RBI double in the sixth and stole two bases. Alex Bregman had the other RBI for the Astros when he was hit in the back by Severino’s fastball with the bases loaded in the second.
Including last year’s sweep in the ALCS, the Astros are 10-3 against the Yankees since the start of last season.
Jake Bauers, Isiah Kiner-Falefa and Giancarlo Stanton homered for New York. Severino (2-6) allowed five runs and five hits in four-plus innings.
MILWAUKEE (AP) — Alfonso Rivas had a three-run homer and a triple among his three hits, leading Pittsburgh past Milwaukee.
Rivas was playing his second game for the Pirates since being acquired from San Diego on Tuesday.
Bryan Reynolds also went 3 for 5 with a homer, and Henry Davis and Josh Palacios also went deep for the Pirates. Palacios and Reynolds hit back-to-back homers off Bryse Wilson in the sixth inning to extend Pittsburgh’s lead to 8-3.
Milwaukee’s Carlos Santana, acquired from the Pirates last week, homered against his former team.
Yerry De Los Santos (1-1) earned his first career win with one scoreless inning of relief. Colin Rea (5-5) took the loss.
DETROIT (AP) — Jose Siri homered and drove in three runs, Zack Littell won his second straight start and Tampa Bay routed Detroit.
Littell (2-2) have up three hits and a walk in six innings.
Harold Ramírez had three hits and scored twice, and former Tiger Isaac Paredes had two hits and two RBIs. The Rays won for the fourth time in five games.
Reese Olson (1-5) took the loss, allowing four runs on five hits and three walks in five innings. The Tigers have lost seven of nine.
BOSTON (AP) — Davis Schneider homered in his first major league at-bat and Toronto tied its season high with five home runs to beat Boston.
Whit Merrifield, Vladimir Guerrero Jr., Daulton Varsho and Matt Chapman also went deep to help the Blue Jays increase their lead over Boston for the third and final AL wild-card spot.
Toronto starter Alek Manoah (3-8) pitched 6 2/3 innings. He allowed three runs and struck out five.
Merrifield hit a towering fly ball off James Paxton (6-3) on the game’s first pitch that had plenty of carry for his 14th career leadoff home run. Two batters later, Guerrero blasted a no-doubt shot of his own for Toronto’s second solo home run of the inning.
PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Bobby Witt Jr. homered and stole a base, Michael Massey also went deep and Kansas City beat Philadelphia for its seventh straight victory.
Witt became the first player in MLB history with at least 20 home runs and 30 stolen bases in each of his first two seasons. Dairon Blanco drove in three runs and stole three bases for Kansas City.
Nick Castellanos homered for the Phillies, who opened a 10-game homestand. Philadelphia began play holding the second wild-card spot in a tightly bunched playoff race.
Witt hit his 20th homer of the season to tie the game at 2 in the third, driving an 85 mph cutter from Aaron Nola (9-8) into the seats in left. He also stole second after singling in the fifth, his 32nd steal, before getting caught trying to swipe third later in the inning.
Jordan Lyles (3-12) gave up five runs on eight hits in 5 2/3 innings but earned the victory. Austin Cox pitched a scoreless ninth for his first save.
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Michael A. Taylor homered to lead off the seventh inning, the third solo shot of the game for Minnesota in its victory over Arizona.
Jorge Polanco and Max Kepler went deep against Diamondbacks starter Merrill Kelly, who otherwise cruised through six innings with nine strikeouts.
Taylor greeted Scott McGough (1-7) with an opposite-field drive off a 1-2 fastball into the flower boxes above the limestone facade beyond right field that put the Twins in front.
Jhoan Duran recorded his 20th save in 24 tries for the Twins, the flame-throwing closer’s latest shaky finish.
Lourdes Gurriel Jr. homered in the second inning for the Diamondbacks.
CLEVELAND (AP) — Andrés Giménez hit a two-run homer among his career-high three extra-base hits, Logan Allen earned his first home victory in more than three months and Cleveland beat Chicago.
Giménez fouled off the first two pitches of his at-bat in the fifth inning, attempting to lay down a bunt and move Steven Kwan to second base. He then swung away, sending a fastball from Mike Clevinger (4-5) into the right field stands to break a 2-all tie.
Allen (5-4) allowed two runs and four hits over six innings, snapping a six-start winless streak at Progressive Field. The left-hander, who struck out five and walked four, had not won at home since going six innings in his major league debut against Miami on April 23.
Emmanuel Clase worked the ninth for his 29th save, tying Baltimore’s Felix Bautista for the AL lead.
ST. LOUIS (AP) — Nolan Jones had four hits and three RBIs and Colorado beat St. Louis in a matchup of last-place clubs.
Elias Díaz had two hits and drove in two runs as Colorado won for just the third time in nine games. The Rockies finished with 15 hits.
Nolan Gorman hit two solo homers for St. Louis, which has dropped six of eight.
Cardinals right-hander Adam Wainwright (3-6) was tagged for seven runs and nine hits in three innings. He remains stuck on 198 career wins in his final season.
Chris Flexen (1-5) was the winner.
AP MLB: 
https://apnews.com/hub/MLB
