Detroit — A Wayne County Circuit Court judge sentenced a Berkley man who admitted last month to attacking a Livonia jogger to 16-35 years in prison.
Judge Mark Slavens handed down the sentence for Floyd Galloway Friday morning in Wayne County Circuit Court.
”,” Slavens said. ".”
Galloway chose not to address the court before the judge imposed his sentence.
Last month, Galloway, 30, pleaded guilty to kidnapping, criminal sexual conduct-assault with intent to commit sexual penetration, and assault with intent to do great bodily harm less than murder by strangulation. In exchange for the plea, the Wayne County Prosecutor’s Office dropped an assault with intent to murder charge.
On Friday, Slavens stuck to the sentencing guidelines in the deal: 16-35 years in prison for the kidnapping charge, plus 6 1/2 -10 years for criminal sexual conduct-assault with intent to commit sexual penetration and assault with intent to do great bodily harm less than murder by strangulation. The last two
Authorities accused Galloway of grabbing the 28-year-old woman on Sept. 4, 2016, as she ran through Edward Hines Park in Livonia.
The victim told police she was grabbed from behind, dragged down an embankment while being punched and choked to the point of losing consciousness. Police said the man demanded sex while he attacked her. She fought back and the man ran off. She was able to flag down a car before contacting police, according to authorities.

        
    
Galloway was arrested in June.
Before he was sentenced Friday, the woman addressed the court. Slavens ordered the media not to identify the woman by name or show the public any images of her.
”,” she said. ".”
Police have questioned Galloway in the disappearance of Danielle Stislicki, a Farmington Hills woman who vanished in December. They have also searched his Berkley home.
Galloway is a former security guard who worked for a company that previously provided security at the building in Southfield where Stislicki was employed. Galloway was acquainted with Stislicki during his security duties.
After Friday’s hearing, Stislicki’s family spoke to the media about his sentencing in the Livonia case.
”,” said Richard Stislicki, Danielle Stislicki’s father. ".”
Her mother, Ann, said xxx.
”,” she said. ".”
[email protected]
