Candidates standing in the Avon and Somerset Police and Crime Commissioner (PCC) election have been debating rural crime.
The four people standing in the 2 May poll outlined their priorities in a live discussion on BBC Radio Somerset.
The Conservative candidate, who has been the PCC for the last four years, said there had been a "significant improvement" in the police response.
But the other three candidates said not enough was being done.
Mark Shelford, Conservative, said organisations including the National Farmers Union in Somerset had told him they'd seen "a significant improvement" in the way rural crime was dealt with, due to the police "engaging better".
"Take illegal hunting: hare coursing, for example," he added.
"What used to happen is a farmer would ring up the police and a blue light response would turn up. 
"And during the time of sirens going, that blue light response, they [perpetrators] would disperse. 
"Now because of the training they've had, the police officers arrive stealthily and are able to arrest the perpetrators. 
"This year is the lowest record level of illegal hunting as a direct result," Mr Shelford said.
Clare Moody, Labour, said there had been a 32% increase nationally in rural crime "which impacts on people's lives".
"We've got to get that figure down," she said.
She said police should be "working with farmers to make sure they have the technical support to prevent crime".
"We've also got to work across agencies about tackling serious organised crime," she added.
"Communities do not feel that response is there and that's the connection the PCC has to deliver on - that connection to communities, so that they are heard and their needs are responded to."
Green party candidate Katy Grant grew up on a farm on the Somerset/Devon border and said that means she understands the landscapes that communities and farmers operate in and the "threats and crime they experience".
"Rural police teams really need to be tackling these cases and taking some of them as far as they possibly can so we do see a deterrent effect," she added.
"I do think this is one of the problems is that that's just not enough being done to make people see they will pay if they commit these crimes."
Benet Allen, Liberal Democrat, said burglary is a "huge problems" for farmers.
"Burglary and anti-social behaviour both happen in the countryside as well," he said. 
"We have to prioritise this and we have to be better at being there - but most of all we need to repair our hollowed-out police force so that we have the strength to actually tackle these problems. 
"I would go to central government and say 'give us back our funding please'," Mr Allen added.
Follow BBC Somerset on Facebook and, X. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
