A depot worker walking on the tracks was struck by a train after it began to move "much quicker" than they expected, a report has found. The staff member responsible for shunting trains was seriously injured as a train left the St Philips Marsh Depot, Bristol, on 26 September 2023. A report published on Thursday by the Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) recommended two actions to Great Western Railway (GWR) in the wake of the incident. A GWR spokesperson said a "thorough review of risk mitigations" has been conducted.
The train was travelling at 10mph, double the speed limit in place at the depot. The train driver did not see the shunter, who was walking in his path, but braked immediately after hearing the vehicle hit something. The worker was hit on the elbow by the train coming from behind, the report said, and threw themselves forward to avoid going under the train. Their high-visibility vest then caught on the side of the train, dragging them a short distance until the vest's fastenings gave way.They sustained serious injuries to their ankle, as well as other injuries to their knuckle, elbow, shoulder and head, and was treated by paramedics before being taken to hospital. A summary of the report outlined how the shunter had "regularly used" the walking route where he was hit, but had been unaware that the train was moving and "did not realise it was catching up with them". 
The RAIB identified two underlying factors for the incident. Firstly, they said, GWR had "not effectively controlled the risk of a shunter being struck by a train outside of a shed building".Secondly,  they said: "GWR’s assurance processes had not identified that train movements within the depot were exceeding the speed limit."The summary of the report did highlight that in the wake of the incident the train company had updated its risk assessment and introduced new measures specifically related to trains moving outside the main shed building, and addressed concerns about monitoring drivers' observations of speed limits. 
As a result of its investigation, RAIB has made two recommendations to GWR.The company has been urged to review the personal track safety training it provides to shunters, and to identify the places in depots where staff might have to walk in the path of a train. 
A GWR spokesperson told the BBC the company recognised it was a "very serious incident". "We have conducted a thorough review of our risk mitigations; identified options to reduce those risks, and continue the work of implementation."This includes addressing the recommendations made by the RAIB to review personal track safety certification standards and walking routes at our depots.""The safety of our colleagues and our passengers is our highest priority," they added.
Follow BBC Bristol on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
