Nonprofit organizations in northwest Houston have been working tirelessly since Hurricane Harvey to help flood victims.
“Cypress Assistance Ministries is still inundated with requests for help and there is a line waiting for our Assistance Offices to open each morning,” said Janet Ryan, director of development at Cypress Assistance Ministries.
The flood victims include residents who live paycheck to paycheck and lost a week’s worth of work during the hurricane and now cannot afford a deposit for a new apartment, Ryan said.
Cypress Assistance Ministries is providing food, clothing, cleaning supplies, toiletries and a limited amount of financial assistance for rent, utilities, or new lodging deposits to area residents impacted by the hurricane, Ryan said.
“Anyone who was already living paycheck to paycheck who lost any days of work due to the hurricane is coming in for food, financial assistance, clothing, and more,” Ryan said. “These effects will continue for months.”
“The community has been very generous in their donations,” Ryan said. However, “this increase in need is expected to go on for months,” Ryan said.
“Our biggest need is money,” Ryan said.
Volunteers are also needed, as are donations.
To help with long-term recovery efforts, Cy-Hope has established a new arm of its nonprofit - Cy-Hope Disaster Recovery Network. Through this new group, the nonprofit is organizing member congregations and businesses to help with long-term recovery.

        
    
Through the new network, Cy-Hope is working to help families who do not have insurance money for repairs or FEMA funding. They have already started registering families in need.
“Our biggest need now is awareness,” said Steve Saunders, director of Cy-Hope’s disaster recovery network. “We need to build our network in this area and start training volunteers for specific positions to help our neighbors recover.”
“The churches in the area as well as Cy-Hope have been inundated with requests for help,” Saunders said. “Among the 50 congregations we have spoken with, there have been hundreds of homes mucked out. Those congregations and Cy-Hope have collected enough donations to cover the expense of the muck outs, but nowhere near enough to put our neighbors back to wholeness.”
In addition, Cy-Hope is dealing with its own recovery efforts - the nonprofit’s resale store, The Hope Chest, was flooded and lost over $300,000 worth of inventory.
In the first few weeks after the flooding, Tomball Emergency Assistance Ministries had focused on immediate needs, including housing and supplies.
“The community has shown a tremendous outpouring of support and solidarity for those in need and has supported our efforts to respond to those in need through Team,” said Becky Loving, director of the nonprofit.
“We are now focusing on helping those with lost wages who still need bills paid but who have not yet received FEMA funds,” Loving said.
TEAM is asking for volunteers to sort the donations the nonprofit has received for hurricane relief efforts.
“And we also need volunteers to help with clients coming to us in need of financial support,” Loving said.
Immediately after the hurricane, Northwest Assistance Ministries provided items such as emergency food, clothing, bedding, baby formula, diapers and hygiene items to more than 6,000 residents. Now the nonprofit has begun to provide long-term relief assistance to individuals and families.
The long-term needs include shelter assistance, rapid rehousing, medical needs, transportation and employment assistance.
Northwest Assistance Ministries will also be working on a third phase of recovery efforts, which includes vocational training to help those who have permanently lost their jobs due to the hurricane.
Tomagwa Healthcare Ministries, an organization that provides care for low-income residents in the Tomball, Magnolia and Waller areas, has seen its patient load increase since the hurricane.
“We are seeing more patients than ever, on track to handle 20,000 patient visits this year as compared to about 14,000 last year,” said TOMAGWA’s development director and pastor, Rev. Steven G. Lightfoot.
The nonprofit has brought in an emergency response medical team from Heart to Heart to help with the overflow patients.
TOMAGWA is in need of additional fundraising to help with the overflow.
“We are working hard to find the extra funding to handle the increases in numbers of patients,” he said. “However, the need far outweighs the funding available.”
“We are treating respiratory problems, skin issues, eye infections and other illnesses associated with the hazardous environment left behind by the flood waters,” Lightfoot said. “Also, injuries associated with tear out and construction as the clean-up of homes and businesses continues.”
Want to know more?
Tomagwa Healthcare Ministries: www.tomagwa.org
Cy-Hope Disaster Recovery Network: www.cy-hope.org
Northwest Assistance Ministries: namonline.org
