YEKATERINBURG, Russia (AP) — Closing arguments in the espionage trial of U.S. journalist 
Evan Gershkovich
 will be held Friday, a court said, as the proceedings in Russia’s highly politicized legal system picked up speed in a case that has seen the reporter held behind bars for over a year.
Gershkovich attended a trial session for a second day behind closed doors on Thursday, the court said. The Wall Street Journal reporter faces charges that he, his employer and the U.S. government vehemently deny.
Unlike previous sessions in which reporters were allowed to see Gershkovich briefly before the proceedings began, there was no access to the courtroom and he was not seen, with no explanation given. Espionage and treason cases are typically shrouded in secrecy.
Gershkovich, 32, was arrested March 29, 2023, while on a reporting trip. Authorities claimed, without offering any evidence, that he was gathering secret information for the U.S. The 
American-born son of immigrants
 from the USSR, Gershkovich is the first Western journalist arrested on 
espionage charges
 in post-Soviet Russia.
“Evan’s wrongful detention has been an outrage since his unjust arrest 477 days ago, and it must end now,” the Journal said Thursday in a statement. “Even as Russia orchestrates its shameful sham trial, we continue to do everything we can to push for Evan’s immediate release and to state unequivocally: Evan was doing his job as a journalist, and journalism is not a crime. Bring him home now.”
The U.S. State Department has declared Gershkovich “wrongfully detained,” committing the government to assertively seek his release.

        
    
Gershkovich faces up to 20 years in prison if found guilty, which is almost a certainty. Russian courts convict more than 99% of defendants, and prosecutors can appeal sentences that they regard as too lenient. They even can appeal acquittals.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Wednesday at the United Nations that Moscow and Washington’s “special services” are discussing an exchange involving Gershkovich. Russia has previously signaled the possibility of a swap, but it says a verdict would have to come first.
He also repeated statements from Kremlin officials that there was “irrefutable evidence” against Gershkovich, although neither he nor any other Russian official has ever disclosed it.
State Department deputy spokesman Vedant Patel on Thursday declined to discuss negotiations about a possible exchange, but said, “We have been clear from the get-go that Evan did nothing wrong and should not have been detained. To date, Russia has provided no evidence of a crime and has failed to justify Evan’s continued detention.”
On Tuesday, the top U.S. envoy at the U.N. told Lavrov that Russian President Vladimir Putin should release Gershkovich and other Americans detained in the country, accusing Moscow of treating “human beings as bargaining chips.”
U.S. Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield singled out Gershkovich and ex-Marine 
Paul Whelan
, 53, a corporate security director from Michigan, who was detained in Moscow in 2018, convicted of espionage in 2020 and serving a 16-year sentence. Both he and the U.S. the charge is baseless.
“We will not rest until Paul and Evan come home, and Russia has ceased this barbaric practice of holding human pawns once and for all,” Thomas-Greenfield said. “And that’s a promise.”
Gershkovich’s trial began June 26 in the Ural Mountains city of Yekaterinburg after he spent about 15 months in in Moscow’s 
notorious Lefortovo Prison.
At the 
trial’s first day,
 the court said it was adjourning until mid-August. But Gershkovich’s lawyers asked for the second hearing to be held earlier, Russian state news agency RIA Novosti and independent news site Mediazona reported Tuesday, citing court officials.
The Russian Prosecutor General’s office said last month the journalist is accused of “gathering secret information” on orders from the CIA about Uralvagonzavod, a plant about 150 kilometers (90 miles) north of Yekaterinburg that produces and repairs tanks and other military equipment.
Gershkovich’s employer and U.S. officials have dismissed those charges as fabricated and denounced the trial as illegitimate and a sham.
“Evan has never been employed by the United States government. Evan is not a spy. Journalism is not a crime. And Evan should never have been detained in the first place,” White House national security spokesperson John Kirby said last month.
Earlier this month, 
U.N. human rights experts
 said Russia violated international law by jailing Gershkovich and should release him “immediately.”
The Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, made up of independent experts convened by the U.N.’s top human rights body, said there was a “striking lack of any factual or legal substantiation” for spying charges leveled against Gershkovich. It said his U.S. nationality has been a factor in his detention, and as a result the case against him was discriminatory.
In addition, Russia’s interpretation of what constitutes high crimes like espionage and treason 
is broad
, with authorities often going after people who share publicly available information with foreigners and accusing them of divulging state secrets.
Arrests of Americans are 
increasingly common
 in Russia, with nine U.S. citizens known to be detained there as tensions between the two countries have escalated over fighting in Ukraine.
On Thursday, Michael Travis Leake, a musician who has lived in Russia for more than a decade, was sentenced by a Moscow court to 13 years in prison for drug trafficking. 
Burrows reported from London.
