A murderer who stabbed a man 50 times before threatening to kill the victim's fiancée has been told he must serve at least 15 years in prison before being considered for release.
John Paul Whitla, 44, of no fixed abode, admitted killing Nathan Gibson in Craigavon in January 2020.
The judge described the attack on a towpath near Lake Road as brutal.
Then, covered in blood, he went to the father-of-one's home and threatened to rape and kill his partner, police said. 
She escaped by jumping from an upstairs window, before alerting a neighbour, Det Insp Hazel Miller added.
Mr Gibson's fiancée said she had been left "not only widowed but traumatised and lucky to have escaped alive". 
"Whilst we have been surrounded by words such as justice and closure, the heartbreaking reality remains that Nathan's precious little boy and I find little solace in this," she said in a statement after the sentencing. 
Mr Gibson's family said they were heartbroken both at his killing and by the length of the sentence handed down to Whitla.
Mr Gibson's sister, Shantelle Gibson, said the family felt let down by the justice system.
"Fifteen years is not long enough. We as a family have also been given a sentence and for us, its a lifetime of heartache and pain," she said.
"We will be pressing for the Public Prosecution Service to appeal this sentence."
Judge Patrick Lynch KC said Whitla is considered dangerous and presents a significant risk of serious harm to the public. 
The court was told he had a low IQ, suffered a traumatic brain injury as a child, and was a drug user. 
Having admitted murder, he will serve an automatic life sentence but will not be eligible for parole for at least 15 years. 
In an earlier statement, Shantelle Gibson said: "No number of years will ever be enough to justify taking a life, or bring Nathan back to us."
She added: "Everyone who knew him loved him; he never held any animosity or bad feelings towards anyone. 
"By cruel contrast, his killer has brought heart-wrenching pain, not only to the family, but to Nathan's friends and the whole community."
The court heard that when Whitla committed the murder, he was drunk and had taken cocaine, pregabalin and diazepam.
The judge said Whitla did not make clear admissions to the murder or the other offences until shortly before the trial.
He added that allowing for the discount of pleading guilty, Whitla would serve at least 15 years in prison and only be released at some date after that if it was deemed he no longer poses a threat or danger to the public. 
He was also placed on the sex offenders register for an indefinite period.
Det Insp Miller said: "This was an absolutely terrifying and traumatic ordeal for Nathan's fiancée, who was threatened, and left to feel unsafe in her own home.  
"She, and Nathan's family, have suffered an unimaginable and heartbreaking loss. 
"Whitla murdered Nathan Gibson in the most brutal of attacks.  While his motivation is unknown, there is absolutely no doubt that this was the senseless loss of a young life."
