HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) — Pornographic emails on computers at the Pennsylvania attorney general’s office are not public records under the Right-to-Know Law, an appeals court ruled Thursday, but the judges said that doesn’t stop the state’s embattled top prosecutor from releasing them as she has vowed to do.
Commonwealth Court ruled 5-2 against a request by The Philadelphia Inquirer to release the emails, saying “public records” under the access law must document an official transaction or activity of the agency.
“She will issue a statement next Wednesday, after having an opportunity to review the court decision,” said Chuck Ardo, a spokesman for Attorney General Kathleen Kane. He said she “respects the court’s opinion, which is why she sought it in the first place.”
Kane, a first-term Democrat, is currently running her office with a suspended law license as she fights criminal charges for allegedly leaking secret grand jury material to a reporter and lying about it.
An internal review she ordered into her office’s handling of the child molestation investigation of former Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky uncovered evidence that dozens of current and former employees traded salacious or offensive emails, within the office and with judges and others outside it. She has made a series of targeted releases, producing volumes of emails with content that ranges from juvenile to sexually graphic.
She claims that the charges against her resulted from her willingness to take on what she called the old boys’ network of Pennsylvania law enforcement.

        
    
The newspaper made a formal request in August 2014 for copies of all emails that are “of a personal nature and involve pornographic or otherwise inappropriate material.” The request covered all employees since 2005.
Kane’s office denied the request, but the paper received a favorable decision from an outside lawyer Kane had hired to serve as appeals officer. Kane challenged that decision in court.
“All of the states that have addressed the issue have concluded that the contents of government employees’ personal emails are not information about the affairs of government and are, therefore, not open to the public under their respective open records acts,” wrote Judge Dan Pellegrini for the majority.
The fact that they were sent, received or kept in violation of agency policy does not make them public records under the Right-to-Know Law, he wrote.
“While there may be other legal reasons that prevent her from doing so, nothing in this opinion precludes her from releasing the emails,” Pellegrini wrote.
A dissent by Judge Bonnie Brigance Leadbetter said content isn’t the only factor. “If communications regarding a particular subject matter are shown to be pervasive and widespread within an agency, they may reach the level of being an activity of the agency,” she wrote.
The court had originally published the decision as a single-judge dissent, but later amended it to indicate a second judge joined Leadbetter, making it a 5-2 decision.
“The public should be able to see which public officials were trading pornographic, misogynistic and racist emails,” said Terry Mutchler, lawyer for the Inquirer. She said a decision about a possible appeal had not been made.
Kane “said in September she was going to release them, and she should do it,” Mutchler said.
Kane’s criticism of the Sandusky prosecution triggered a feud with investigators who handled the case, and in 2014, prosecutors allege, she leaked confidential grand jury information to the Philadelphia Daily News in an attempt to show that two of them had bungled a corruption investigation.
The scandal led to the downfall of a state environmental secretary and shamed a state police commissioner, a Pennsylvania Supreme Court justice and several former top officials in the attorney general’s office. Another high-court justice was suspended by his colleagues and then abruptly retired after newspapers disclosed his involvement.
Kane was charged in August with obstruction, perjury and other offenses, and the state Supreme Court ruled in September to temporarily suspend her license.
Online: http://bit.ly/1Xbh7cZ
