In 1946, a dangerous radioactive apparatus in the Manhattan Project killed a scientist when his screwdriver slipped. To tell his story, Ben Platts-Mills pieced together what happened inside the room.
Less than a year after the Trinity atomic bomb test, a careless slip with a screwdriver cost Louis Slotin his life.
In 1946, Slotin, a nuclear physicist, was poised to leave his job at Los Alamos National Laboratories (formerly the Manhattan Project). When his successor came to visit his lab, he decided to demonstrate a potentially dangerous apparatus, called the "critical assembly". During the demo, he used his screwdriver to support a beryllium hemisphere over a plutonium core. It slipped, and the hemisphere dropped over the core, triggering a burst of radiation. He died nine days later.
Last week, BBC Future explored the consequences of this fatal accident in a specially illustrated story created by the artist and writer Ben Platts-Mills:
In this gallery, Platts-Mills explains how he composed the illustrations, based on reconstructions created shortly after the accident, archive photographs, and his own mock-up of the apparatus built from household materials.
Thanks to the following people who helped along the way: Andy Sewell, Marshall Wilder, Richard Fisher, Nicola Stephanie, Glenn Adamson, Tony Hall, Sam Winston, Allex Wellerstein, Christina Petrie, Roger Sherman, Javier Hirschfeld, Joe Rizzo Naudi, Annie Hayter, Tiiu Mortley, Eleanor Nairne, Claire Crofton, Sasha Galitzine, Kirsten Duran, and Los Alamos National Laboratories.
*Ben Platts-Mills is a writer and artist whose work investigates power, reasoning and vulnerability, and the ways science is represented in popular culture. His memoir, Tell Me The Planets, was published in 2018. On Instagram he is @benplattsmills.
--
Join one million Future fans by liking us on Facebook, or follow us on Twitter or Instagram.
If you liked this story, sign up for the weekly bbc.com features newsletter, called "The Essential List" – a handpicked selection of stories from BBC Future, Culture, Worklife, Travel and Reel delivered to your inbox every Friday.
