There’s plenty to do this weekend!
Hamilton (DPAC, 123 Vivian St., Durham) - The Broadway blockbuster comes to Durham! Hamilton is the story of America’s Founding Father Alexander Hamilton, an immigrant from the West Indies who became George Washington’s right-hand man during the Revolutionary War and was the new nation’s first Treasury Secretary. Featuring a score that blends hip-hop, jazz, blues, rap, R&B, and Broadway, Hamilton is the story of America then, told by America now. It runs through Dec. 2 at Durham Performing Arts Center. A small allotment of tickets will be available before each show. And there is also a lottery system each night for $10 tickets.
Travis Scott (PNC Arena, 1400 Edwards Mill Rd, Raleigh) - The rapper and producer plays PNC Arena Friday night with Trippie Redd, Gunna, and Sheck Wes.
Infamous Stringdusters (Lincoln Theatre, 126 E. Cabarrus St. Raleigh) - See this bluegrass band Sunday night at Lincoln Theatre in downtown Raleigh.
Iron and Wine (Meymandi Concert Hall, 2 East South Street, Raleigh) - For more than a decade, singer-songwriter Sam Beam has been creating music as Iron and Wine. See him Saturday night at Meymandi Concert Hall.
NC Comicon (Durham Convention Center, 301 W Morgan St, Durham) - Celebrate everything comic book and pop culture at this event at the Durham Convention Center Friday through Sunday.
Moonlight in the Garden (JC Raulston Arboretum, 4415 Beryl Rd, Raleigh) - Enjoy a magical lighting exhibition at the JC Raulston Arboretum at N.C. State. Moonlight in the Garden starts Thursday (Nov. 8) and runs through Saturday (Nov. 10). It wraps up Nov. 15-17.

        
    
Carolina Hurricanes All-Star Chef Series (PNC Arena, 1400 Edwards Mill Rd., Raleigh) - The Carolina Hurricanes are teaming up with Social House Vodka to host a series of dinners featuring area chefs. Dubbed the All-Star Chef Series, each meal will take place two hours before game time at the Arena Club Restaurant at PNC Arena. The four-course meals will include signature cocktails from guest bartenders. The first dinner is Saturday night and will feature Dean Neff of PinPoint Restaurant in Wilmington and Chris Coleman of Stoke Charlotte.
Party with the Pugs (N.C. State Fairgrounds, Holshouser Building, 1025 Blue Ridge Rd, Raleigh) - Enjoy an afternoon with some pugs on Sunday. There will be vendors, food cart, more than 30 raffle items, a DJ and the Running of the Pugs.
Downtown Cary Food and Flea (Fidelity Bank Plaza, 100 W. Chatham Street, Cary) - Enjoy this monthly artisan and vintage market on Sunday in downtown Cary. The event also includes live music, local arts, shopping, food trucks and local beer.
Raleigh Arts’ Fall Arts Fair (Fletcher Park, 820 Clay St., Raleigh) - Fred Fletcher Park hosts this arts fair on Saturday featuring more than 50 local artists and makers. There will also be live music with the Chatham Rabbits, food trucks including Bourbon Street Beignets and 454 Grill, and poetry with Poetry Fox.
Bradford’s & Bond Brother’s Beer & BBQ Ball (Bond Brothers Beer Company) - The Cary Fire Department’s Firefighter Association and Bond Brothers Beer are throwing a party on Sunday. There will be live music, reverse raffles, silent auctions, firefighter-cooked barbecue and more.
Arts After Dark (Imurj, 300 S. McDowell St., Raleigh) - This 21 years and older event includes a make and take art project followed by dancing. There sill also be a cash bar. The fun happens 7 to 10 p.m. Friday at Imurj in downtown Raleigh.
Darwin Day (NC Museum of Natural Sciences, 11 W. Jones St., Raleigh) - The N.C. Museum of Natural Sciences hosts this event on Saturday. It has become the largest event of its kind in the country. Learn about Darwin and what his theories of natural selection have done for the world of science, research and education.
Raleigh Korean Festival (N.C. State Fairgrounds, 1025 Blue Ridge Rd., Raleigh) - The event will feature a variety performances ranging from martial arts to traditional dance to Korean pop, traditional Korean cuisine and more fun on Saturday.
Come Together for the Coast (Fayetteville Street, downtown Raleigh) - Chef Scott Crawford has partnered with The Sunday Supper for this benefit dinner to help the victims of Hurricane Florence. Guests on Sunday will enjoy a community meal at a table set for 1,000 people. Tickets are $25.
Harvest and Hope (Fullsteam, 726 Rigsbee Avenue, Durham) - Enjoy an afternoon of desserts, drinks, music and mingling at Fullsteam Brewery on Sunday. The event is a fundraiser for the Live into Hope Fund, which was created to assist with Farm Church Co-Planter Ben Johnston-Krase with medical and general expenses as he is living with stage four lung cancer.
Mistletoe Market Holiday Fair (Wakefield High School, 2200 Wakefield Pines Dr, Raleigh) - Get some early shopping done Saturday at Wake Field High School’s holiday fair featuring more than 200 vendors. The event also includes baked goods, basket raffles and a canned food drive for Tri-Area ministries. Proceeds will benefit the programs of the Parent Student Teacher Association. Admission is $5 and if you bring in a canned good, you get $1 off. Children under 12 are admitted free.
Nerdvember (Kings, 14 W Martin St., Raleigh) - Presented by The VaudeVillain Revue, this show is a a celebration of all the things that make our nerdy little hearts happy. Enjoy burlesque, live music, circus arts, comedy, and more Friday night.
Epic Axe Throwing (Carolina Ale House, 11685 Northpark Dr, Wake Forest) - Head to Caroline Ale House on Saturday afternoon for some hatchet throwing.
Sparkle Night (Parkside Town Commons, 7119 O’Kelly Chapel Rd, Cary) - Help Parkside Town Commons kick off the holiday season on Saturday night with bounce houses, music, face painting, Santa and more fun.
