Pieces of street art in the style of elusive graffiti artist Banksy have appeared in towns on the east coast of England.
The creations appeared in Gorleston and Great Yarmouth in Norfolk, and Lowestoft in Suffolk.
They include depictions of a child near a dug up-pavement, people dancing on a bus shelter and an amusement arcade-style toy-grabbing crane.
The artist has not authenticated the works via Instagram or any other means.
The BBC has attempted to contact representatives of Banksy, whose recent work includes a hula-hooping girl and an escaping prisoner.
Banksy expert Prof Paul Gough, principal and vice chancellor of Arts University Bournemouth, said he was "pretty sure" the works were by Banksy, "or they are very good fakes".
"Banksy has clearly been enjoying an East Anglian staycation: these are very sophisticated stencils showing an artist at the top of his game," he said.
"The paintwork is distinctive; the drawing is really sharp; even the dance steps are convincing.
"As always with Banksy, the context is crucial: he chooses his sites carefully, and these three are beautifully located.
"The three works speak to different generations of viewers: young children, seniors, and those out to have a great time after 18 months of lockdown. Perhaps the child with the crowbar is a symbol of us all being released from the pandemic."
The anonymous Bristol-based artist's identity is shrouded in secrecy, but he first rose to prominence spray-painting trains and walls in his home city in the early 1990s.
Since then his stature has grown and he is known for sending political messages through his work.
Banksy's artwork has sold for millions, and in 2018 he made international headlines when one of his paintings self-destructed after it was sold for more than £1m.
Last year he encouraged the public to wear face masks in a piece of graffiti which appeared on a London Underground train.
In a bizarre twist, former children's TV presenter Neil Buchanan also denied he was the artist after a theory posted online went viral.
Other Banksy-style pieces that have sprung up in the area include a rodent relaxing in a deckchair on a sea wall and a seagull appearing to dive for the contents of a nearby skip.
A joint bid to become the next UK City of Culture in 2025 has been made by the three towns where the new artworks have appeared.
It is the first time that towns and neighbouring places have been allowed to apply for the status.
Prof Gough said: "Banksy has supported previous City of Culture events, and this is another act of giving: typical of his generosity in these troubled times, but also with his trademark thought-provoking imagery."
The chief executive of Great Yarmouth Borough Council, Sheila Oxtoby, said: "We're just as intrigued and curious as everybody else as to whether these could be genuine Banksys.
"It would be great to think that they were, but we really don't know.
"Twitter's gone crazy - just admiring the quality of the artwork which has appeared overnight from nowhere."
When asked if it was anything to do with the city of culture bid, Ms Oxtoby replied: "It would have been a good ruse, wouldn't it, but it definitely isn't the council behind this."
She said the council had "asked a few people who may know" how to verify if the work was a genuine Banksy and that "no decision" had yet been taken about what would be done with the pieces.
Sarah Young, curator of the Yare Gallery in Great Yarmouth, has seen the artwork on the town's Admiralty Road and said: "I definitely want this to be a Banksy - wouldn't it be cool?
"It would be a huge boost to Yarmouth - everyone is already looking at it, wondering 'Is it? Is it not?'
"Come on, Banksy - let us know."
Ruben Cruz of social enterprise the Reprezent Project, which runs arts events and workshops for young people, said he was confident the work in Great Yarmouth was by the artist, adding: "Banksy in town - it's crazy awesome!"
He said he hoped no-one would vandalise the work and said Reprezent was trying to find a way to protect the Yarmouth mural.
Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk
