A vigil has been held for murdered Arthur Labinjo-Hughes near the home where he suffered at the hands of his stepmother and father.
Hundreds of people gathered in Cranmore Road, Solihull, to pay their respects to the six-year-old. 
The couple were jailed on Friday but their sentences are to be reviewed by the Attorney General's Office.
On Sunday the government confirmed a national review into his killing "to protect other children".
Emma Tustin was jailed for 29 years for murder and child cruelty and Arthur's father, Thomas Hughes, was given 21 years for his manslaughter.
The Attorney General's Office said on Saturday the jail terms would be reviewed to "determine whether they were too low", after Solihull MP Julian Knight said he would refer them for review.
Close to the boy's home on Sunday, crowds released balloons amid applause in tribute to Arthur, who suffered 130 injuries as part of months of torture he endured.
A string of letters spelling "Arthur" were also released as more floral tributes were laid at the house, and posters and drawings were put on the boarded up home he used to live in.
Arthur's grandmother Madeleine Halcrow, who previously paid tribute to him describing him as her "sunny delight", was among those who attended.
Warren Powell told BBC News he and his partner contacted local agencies to organise Sunday's event after wanting to release some balloons with a few friends in memory of the boy.
He said he only met Arthur about three times when he walked past his house but said his dog would lick him, which Arthur thought "was hilarious".
"It just escalated into this thing that happened today," he said.
Mr Powell added: "We've ended up with nearly 500 people here.
"We've sold over 500 raffle tickets to try to raise money for Arthur's funeral, for Arthur's family."
He said he felt "proud" of his community and others who travelled from further afield to be a part of it.
"We've had people here from London….that just goes to show you how much Arthur has touched the country really."
Tustin inflicted the fatal blow to Arthur on 16 June last year, but told police he had been hurting himself.
She photographed him lying on the floor, sending the image to Hughes.
During the court case, jurors heard how Arthur was subjected to cruelty and torture by being made to stand for hours in the hallway of the house and fed food laced with salt.
In one audio clip played to Coventry Crown Court, Arthur could be heard crying "no-one loves me" and "no-one's gonna feed me".
Arthur had lived with his mother, Olivia Labinjo-Halcrow, but was left in the care of his father after she was arrested and later convicted of killing her abusive partner in 2019.
Football clubs around the country also paid tribute to him during the sixth minute of their games on Saturday.
Aston Villa had a minute's applause during their clash with Leicester on Sunday as well as Spurs during their game against Norwich, and QPR and Stoke City's Championship match.
The national review - announced by Education Secretary Nadhim Zahawi on Sunday - "upgrades" an existing local serious case review which had been started into Arthur's death.
The local review is looking into the circumstances around his death after it emerged social workers had visited the house in the months before he died and found no issues, despite relatives raising concerns.
Mr Zahawi said he had asked inspectors in social care, health, police and probation to investigate the safeguarding agencies Arthur was known to.
The Independent Office of Police Conduct will publish a report into West Midlands Police's contact with the case in due course, but said it "found no indication any individual behaved in a manner that justified disciplinary proceedings".
If you have been affected by the issues raised in this article, help and support is available via BBC Action Line.
Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
