A Billings woman who didn’t remember striking a pedestrian or crashing into a tree while driving drunk from a party on the Crow Reservation was sentenced to federal prison Friday.
U.S. District Judge Susan Watters of Billings followed a prosecution recommendation and sentenced Sasha Frances Not Afraid, 25, to two years in prison. The judge also ordered $1,291 restitution to the victim. Not Afraid faced a guideline range of 24 months to 30 months.
Not Afraid pleaded guilty earlier to assault resulting in serious injury for hitting a pedestrian on May 31, 2014, near Dunmore.
The victim, another partygoer who was walking home, woke up later in the morning by the side of the road with a broken knee, broken arm, torn ligaments and tendons, cuts and road rash. He ultimately was treated for injuries at St. Vincent Healthcare in Billings.
The victim, who attended Friday’s sentencing hearing, made no comment but earlier had requested Not Afraid be sentenced to five years in prison.
Not Afraid apologized to the victim for causing him pain and suffering and also to her family.
Watters rejected a defense request for time served of 327 days, saying while rehabilitation for alcohol abuse was needed, punishment also was appropriate. Although Not Afraid did not have a criminal history, she had 21 tribal court convictions, mostly for alcohol-related offenses.
The tribal convictions indicated Not Afraid’s lack of respect for the law or an inability to follow the law, Watters said.

        
    
Others at the party attempted to stop Not Afraid from driving, but she did anyway, Watters said. The victim survived but his injuries will affect him for the rest of his life, she added.
Prosecutors said Not Afraid bit one of the partygoers who tried to keep her from driving.
As Not Afraid drove off in a Dodge Caravan, she hit a tree, shattering the windows on the left side of the vehicle, and sped down the road where the victim was later found.
Not Afraid said at an earlier hearing that she didn’t remember operating the vehicle.
