GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. (AP) — A jury emerged Tuesday with no verdict yet in the trial of four men charged with conspiring to 
kidnap Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer.
U.S. District Judge Robert Jonker thanked jurors for their “ongoing attentiveness and work” and told them to return Wednesday for a third day of deliberations.
Adam Fox, Barry Croft Jr., Daniel Harris and Brandon Caserta 
 are charged with a kidnapping conspiracy. Three of them also face additional charges, including conspiracy to use a weapon of mass destruction, namely an explosive.
The judge rejected a request for trial transcripts in the jury room. Jonker said there was a practical reason: Transcripts aren’t available yet. But even if they were, he added, the jury shouldn’t have them.
“You have to do your best as a group to recall, remember,” Jonker said.
The trial has covered 17 days since March 8, including 13 days of testimony. The jury heard 
hours of closing arguments
 and instructions Friday before beginning its deliberations Monday.
Prosecutors said the conspiracy against Whitmer was fueled by anti-government extremism and anger over her COVID-19 restrictions. With undercover FBI agents and informants embedded in the group, the men trained with a crudely built “shoot house” to replicate her vacation home in September 2020, according to testimony.
There is no dispute that the alleged leaders, Fox and Croft, traveled to Elk Rapids, Michigan, that same weekend to see the location of the governor’s lakeside property and a nearby bridge. Harris and Caserta have been described as “soldiers” in the scheme. 

        
    
Another man, Ty Garbin, who pleaded guilty, said the goal was to get Whitmer before the fall election and create 
enough chaos
 to create a civil war and stop Joe Biden from winning the presidency. Much of the government’s case came from secretly recorded conversations, group messages and social media posts.
Defense lawyers attacked the government’s investigation and the use of a crucial informant, Dan Chappel. They claimed Chappel was the real leader, 
 taking direction from the FBI 
 and keeping the group on edge while recording them for months.
“There was no plan,” Croft attorney Joshua Blanchard told the jury.
Croft is from Bear, Delaware, while the others are from Michigan.
Whitmer, a Democrat, rarely talks publicly about the plot, though she referred to “surprises” during her term that seemed like “something out of fiction” when she 
filed for reelection
 on March 17.
She has 
blamed former President Donald Trump
 for fomenting anger over coronavirus restrictions and refusing to condemn right-wing extremists like those charged in the case. 
Find AP’s full coverage of the Whitmer kidnap plot trial at: 
https://apnews.com/hub/whitmer-kidnap-plot-trial
White reported from Detroit.
