One of the two frontrunners to be Welsh Labour leader and first minister has announced he is standing.
Economy Minister Vaughan Gething said on social media that he had "strong support from right across the party".
He became the first candidate to secure a place on the ballot after eight Labour Members of the Senedd (MSs) announced their backing.
That included three ministers in the Welsh government - Rebecca Evans, Dawn Bowden and Lynne Neagle.
Meanwhile two senior cabinet ministers announced their support for Education Minister Jeremy Miles - Climate Change Minister Julie James and Rural Affairs Minister Lesley Griffiths.
Mr Miles is expected to confirm his candidacy in the coming days.
Mark Drakeford announced on Wednesday he was quitting as Welsh Labour leader.
In a statement issued on X, formerly known as Twitter, Mr Gething said his party faced a "huge task ahead of us".
"We can only maintain our record of winning elections and fighting for the people of Wales if we are a united, modern, diverse movement which reflects this nation's ambitions for the future."
He said Wales has a "crucial opportunity to have two Labour governments working side-by-side to deliver real change in our communities and repair the damage wrecked by the toxic Tory years".
"I look forward to a positive leadership contest where I plan to set out an energetic agenda for our country's future."
Born in Zambia and brought up in Dorset, Mr Gething went to university in Aberystwyth and Cardiff.
The former solicitor and ex-president of the Wales TUC was elected to the Senedd in 2011, representing Cardiff South and Penarth.
Mr Gething was runner-up in the 2018 leadership election, when he was beaten by Mr Drakeford.
As a minister he came to prominence during the Covid pandemic, when he was Mark Drakeford's health minister. After the 2021 election Mr Drakeford moved him to the economy portfolio.
His campaign will be co-chaired by Newport West MS Jayne Bryant and former economy minister Ken Skates.
Other backers include Finance Minister Rebecca Evans, Deputy Sport Minister Dawn Bowden, Deputy Mental Health minister Lynne Neagle and Caerphilly MS Hefin David.
They were joined by Cynon Valley's Vikki Howells and Mid and West Wales MS Joyce Watson.
Ms Bryant said: "Vaughan has been tested through the most difficult times.
"He's led us, along with Mark Drakeford, through the pandemic and we've seen his calm reaction and how he's led with compassion through that. And I think he's got those ideas and record in delivery to take us forward to the next stage."
Education Minister Jeremy Miles's camp is confident the Neath MS will have enough nominations to get on the ballot.
Andrew Morgan, leader of the Welsh Local Government Association, announced his backing for Mr Miles on Wednesday night.
In a statement Julie James, who is being discussed as a possible chair for Mr Miles's campaign, paid tribute to Mr Drakeford, "who has led our party and our country through five incredibly tough years".
"I've worked with Jeremy in government since 2017. I know he has what it takes to be a strong, calm, determined and principled Welsh Labour leader and first minister," she said.
As well as being climate change minister with responsibilities for housing, the Swansea West MS was Labour's campaign chair for the Welsh Parliament election in 2021.
Wrexham MS Ms Griffiths added: "You can guarantee that a Welsh Labour government led by Jeremy Miles will listen to voices and concerns here in the north, and make sure the Welsh government works for us all."
Mr Drakeford will stand down in March, with a new first minister likely to be in place before the Welsh Parliament breaks up for Easter.
Candidates need either five other MSs supporting them, or three with a backing of a certain number of local Labour parties, or affiliate organisations including two trade unions.
It is not clear at the moment if there will be a third candidate to rival Mr Miles and Mr Gething.
Deputy Minister for Social Partnership Hannah Blythyn has been repeatedly tipped as a possible contender and one who might be able to get the support of the Labour left.
Asked by BBC Wales if she was standing, she said: "Wait and see".
On Thursday Mick Antoniw, the Welsh government's counsel general, has ruled himself out of the race.
