A Royal British Legion (RBL) club says it is taking triple its weekly earnings during single England games, thanks to the popularity of the Euros football tournament.The venue in Market Drayton, Shropshire, has transformed three rooms for people to watch the matches, with 15 televisions, one big screen, and also discos before kick-off and after the final whistle.The outside area has also been turned into a fan zone under a marquee. "It's been absolutely fantastic to keep the club sustainable in the quiet times," said chairman, Roy Blase.
He told BBC Radio Shropshire: "The way England are playing, and the longer the night goes on, it's better for trade, because people are stopping out instead of going home, so it's all a bonus for us. "On Sunday [when England played Switzerland in the quarter-final] it was just totally full, it's been really good for business."Mr Blaise said the aim was to make the venue family friendly, so that everyone was welcome."They can bring their kids and nan and granddads. It's a great community thing instead of sitting on the settee," he said. "It’s great for the community spirit, which we are all about."As for Wednesday's semi-final against the Netherlands, Mr Blase said: "2-1 to England, I'm hoping. We’ve got to have a good game in us. I'm ready."
Elsewhere in the county, other venues are seeing similar success.Whitchurch Alport Football Club has been using its 215-inch scoreboard as a television screen, and has turned its pitch into a fan zone."It probably gives us the biggest beer garden in Shropshire," said the club's Mark Madeley."Every single game so far has been really busy. It helps us maintain the club."
Bridgnorth Rugby Club has also seen a financial lift from the Euros.The club has been offering food and drink deals, plus music, for locals and their families during games."We've got a brand new clubhouse which we've got to pay for," said Ian George from the club."Anything like this [event] is gratefully received," he explained. "It's bringing valuable revenue into the club, which is going to pay off our considerable loan."
Follow BBC Shropshire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
