Two men have been found guilty of murder after fatally stabbing a "loving father" in the leg during a robbery.Andrew Dymock, 33, of Queens Avenue, Portishead, and Robert White, 37, of no fixed address, attacked 43-year-old Dominic Wilson at a flat in Upper Church Road, Weston-super-Mare, in the early hours of 27 November 2023A jury found them guilty of murder at Bristol Crown Court on Friday.Senior investigating officer, Det Ch Insp Simon Dewfall, described the attack as "callous and vicious". 
The jury heard how Dymock and White stole the keys to the flat during a robbery earlier that night, alongside two other men.CCTV then shows the two men using the keys to access the flat where Mr Wilson was staying.They were only in the flat for 74 seconds before fatally injuring Mr Wilson, police said.Officers were initially called by the victim of the earlier robbery, and upon taking him back to his home, found Mr Wilson in a serious condition. Despite their best efforts to save him using CPR, Mr Wilson was pronounced dead at the scene.Police investigating the death discovered a knife in a nearby drain.Speaking after his death, Mr Wilson's family said: "Dominic was a loving father to his children. He always enjoyed what this life had to offer, and he lived it to the full."His bubbly character will live on and he will be dearly missed by those who knew him."
Dymock and White were subsequently arrested and charged with robbery, along with the two other men, Kerry Miles, 39, of Dickenson Road, Weston-super-Mare, and Zachery Stone, 26, also of Dickenson Road. All four pleaded guilty to the robbery charges. Dymock and White were additionally charged with murder and will be sentenced on 4 July. Det Ch Insp Dewfall said: "This was a callous and vicious attack that very sadly led to Dominic losing his life at far too young an age."This has been a complex investigation and I'd like to thank everyone involved in making sure we were able to bring those responsible for Dominic's death to justice."
Follow BBC Somerset on Facebook and X. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
