Treat yourself and the family to a delicious, locally-sourced Breakfast on the Farm with the UW-Madison Association of Women in Agriculture 8 a.m. to noon Sunday at UW-Madison Stock Pavilion, 1675 Linden Drive. After filling up on pancakes, sausage, ham, yogurt, ice cream, and more, enjoy the petting zoo, educational programs, pedal tractors, and music that includes a visit from the UW Marching Band. Breakfast cost is $7/adults, $5/kids, seniors and students, and free for children 3 and under. The petting zoo is free.
More information 
www.facebook.com/AWABOTF
 or 
awamadison.org
.
Madison Opera
Journey down the Amazon River with Madison Opera’s presentation of “Florencia en al Amazonas” 8 p.m. Friday, and again at 2:30 p.m. Sunday, in Overture Hall, Overture Center for the Arts, 201 State St. A storm, piranhas and cholera besiege a famous opera singer, Florencia Grimaldi, traveling anonymously on a voyage down the Amazon River with a young journalist, a long-married couple, the boat’s captain and his nephew, and a mystical man. Elizabeth Caballero, who debuted with Madison Opera in 2007, returns in the role of Florencia, which she has sung for New York City Opera and Nashville Opera. Tickets range $18-$130, and can be purchased online at 
www.overture.org/events/florencia
; at the Overture box office; or by phone 608-258-4141.
More information: 
madisonopera.org
; or phone 608-238-8085.
Disc golf rally

        
    
Putter around on the Kiwanis disc golf course in Amundson Park on Amundson Parkway, Stoughton, 8:30 a.m. Saturday during the Stoughton Kiwanis Disc Golf Rally. No experience is necessary to join the fun at the newly upgraded and renovated course. There will be door prizes and prizes will be awarded in two beginner categories, ages 12 and under, and ages 13 to 18, along with a male open and female open. Entry fee is $5/individual, with a $10/family maximum. There is no entry fee for children 5 and under with an accompanying paying adult; and parents bringing a paid kindergarten-to-12th-grade entrant play free. More information 
www.facebook.com/stoughtonkiwanis
.
Taiwanese puppet show
Enjoy puppet shows presented by the UW-Madison Taiwan Puppet Troupe 2 p.m. Saturday at Wisconsin Historical Museum, 30 N. Carroll St. The troupe shares Taiwanese culture with audiences of all ages through original stories. Stay after the performance to make your own puppet! Admission is free.
