Health Secretary Eluned Morgan is "giving serious consideration" to standing to replace Vaughan Gething as Wales' first minister.Welsh Labour has confirmed it will elect Mr Gething's successor by mid September after the first minister quit on Tuesday when three ministers and his chief legal adviser all resigned following months of interparty disputes.Ms Morgan said she was looking at a "unity ticket" with fellow Senedd cabinet member Huw Irranca-Davies running as her deputy.In a dramatic move, Jeremy Miles, who lost out to Mr Gething in spring's leadership contest, has backed Ms Morgan, saying she was "best placed to take the country and party forward".
Ms Morgan told BBC Politics Wales she had "a considerable amount of support" across Labour but would not be drawn on whether she has the required six nominations to get on the ballot paper. The party's politicians in the Senedd have until noon on Wednesday to decide who they are backing. Ms Morgan said she hoped to confirm her bid in "the next few hours or days".She said she had "considerable amount of support... from the different sections of the Labour party," adding "you don’t need to belong to any particular faction" to support her.
"If I were to stand, then I would be standing on a ticket along with Huw Irranca-Davies, who was a Jeremy Miles supporter, so it would be a unity ticket."This is something that we are testing. There’s been a huge groundswell of support within the party for that idea."People want to look to the future. They want to look to the next election and they want us to refocus of delivering for the people of Wales."Speaking after the programme she said she was "humbled by the response" and that it has been a "challenging time". "However, I am confident that there will be a positive route forward, whether it be us, or others at the helm. "Regardless of who leads, we will regroup to achieve our potential, united by a common goal: to serve the people who elected us and to do what is right for Wales," she added. 
Mr Miles had initially been expected to run after BBC Wales was told he had the support of enough of his colleagues to secure his place on the ballot paper.However, supporters of Mr Gething claimed Mr Miles would not be able to unite the Labour Party in the Senedd.In a statement issued on Sunday, Mr Miles said he had been "really grateful to so many people for the encouragement to stand in this election".He added: "I have always put the interests of our country and party first. And I am absolutely certain that Eluned is best placed to take the country and party forward."Her leadership would enable us all to move forward, united in delivering the vision of the Welsh Labour government."Speaking at the Royal Welsh Show, Huw Irranca-Davies said with only three days left "nothing is inevitable"."If Eluned is nominated and if she's nominated on a partnership ticket for the good of Wales and for the people of Wales, I think that's a strong offer."He added that being deputy first minister and rural affairs secretary was feasible. Jack Sargeant, MS for Alyn and Deeside, is also backing Ms Morgan. "Her skills and experience at the head of a Welsh Labour team can unite our Party and ensure we continue to deliver for Cymru," he said in post on X, formerly Twitter.  
Just over 90 minutes ago, Eluned Morgan was telling us that she was thinking of entering the game to become the leader of Welsh Labour – and more than likely to be the next first minister.Her pitch was on being "united" and, as part of that, she was going to work with Rural Affairs Secretary Huw Irranca-Davies – the significance of this was that he was previously a supporter of a potential rival, Jeremy Miles.Dramatically, Mr Miles has now said he'll nominate Ms Morgan to be the next leader, saying he wants the party to "move forward, united".After an incredibly toxic period for Welsh Labour which has seen the resignation of Vaughan Gething over rows on donations and leaked WhatsApp messages, this is a big move from Mr Miles.It has put Ms Morgan in a table-topping position to not only be leader of the Welsh Labour Party but, potentially, be the next first minister of Wales – the first woman ever to do so.
Conservative Member of the Senedd James Evans said the proposed "unity ticket" was an interesting approach, but  questioned Ms Morgan’s record on the NHS.“I think some of the stats that have come out recently around health, with health statistics now being worse than it's ever been in Wales, whether that would go against her as first minister," he said. Plaid Cymru repeated its call for a "snap Senedd election" as it claimed the Labour leadership debate was causing instability.Leader Rhun ap Iorwerth said: "Wales’ future success cannot be left to those too wedded to old thinking and failed ideas."Welsh Liberal Democrat leader Jane Dodds said: "Whoever is the new first minister, their job will be to bring not just the Labour government together but I think all of the Senedd together as well."
