A military camp in Dorset used to temporarily house families from Afghanistan will return to its original use after six months, an MP has said.
Chickerell Camp near Weymouth is being used by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) to house people who supported the UK government and military in Afghanistan.
Some residents expressed concerns about extra pressure on local services.
The MoD said it was working to provide what the Afghans need without impacting on the local authorities and services.
The families, who began arriving on Wednesday, are not refugees and have the right to remain in the UK under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy (ARAP).
The camp, which is usually used as a training base, will house up to 250 people at a time while permanent accommodation is found.
West Dorset MP Chris Loder said: "People will come to join us for roughly six to eight weeks while resettlement arrangements are made.
"We can expect the Chickerell base to return to its primary use in about six months time."
A government leaflet explaining the scheme has yet to find its way to homes in the area, according to some residents.
Julia Miles said: "I think it's a bit poor because it's going to affect everybody in the village and I think everybody has a right to know what's going on."
Joy Ford said: "They [the Afghan families] have to go somewhere. I feel so sorry for them and I hope we shall make them welcome."
Lt Col Lee Beales said: "They have gone through torrid times so it's really nice from a military point of view to see these people, who we owe a debt of gratitude to, to be able to give back to them.
"We are working really closely with the local authorities and local services to ensure we can provide what the Afghan nationals - who are entitled to be here - need and we don't impact the local authorities who support the local population around here."
The ARAP scheme is for Afghan citizens and their families who worked for or with the UK Government and British Armed Forces in Afghanistan in "exposed or meaningful roles". 
The UK Government said it was "increasing its effort" to relocate eligible families "at pace" from countries such as Pakistan.
So far, the UK has relocated more than 24,000 people through ARAP and the Afghan Citizen Resettlement Scheme (ACRS) which focuses on women, children and minorities in danger from the Taliban.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk.
