A 14-year-old para-swimmer from Somerset said she wants to be a role model for younger people hoping to get into the sport.Sophie York from Paulton has just returned home after competing in the Dwarf Sports Association National Games. She is heading to Coventry to compete in the Junior British Para-swimming Championships 2024.Sophie said she hopes she can encourage other young people with disabilities to also find a sport they love. 
Sophie's hero is paralympic gold medallist Ellie Simmonds, who she remembers watching compete in the 2012 games.She said: "She's been the role model for me to do it, and so I've always thought that I can do it."A lot of people can do swimming," she said, "and it's also really fun."You can just be yourself in the water."
Sophie joined Norton Radstock swimming club when she was seven and has since progressed to Team Bath.Her mother, Sinead York, said she took Sophie to swimming lessons from an early age as she wanted her to have a life skill.She said that initially Sophie did not seem to be progressing so she contacted Level Water to help with one-to-one sessions. From there, Sophie swam her first width and then soon after, her first length when competing in Canada. Ms York said: “I am amazingly proud of her. "I know all the hard work that it takes to get there and all of the hours that she has spent in the pool."
Ms York added: "Having a disability doesn’t have to be a negative thing. "It's about looking at different ways to do things and adapting situations."She said that with "small adaptations" everyone can have similar access to sport.This won't be Sophie's first time at the championships. She took part in the 2023 event, where she gained a number of personal bests, as well as valuable experience.This year the competition will be an international event featuring some of the best junior swimmers.It is a crucial meet for Sophie, with the chance to qualify for other important events later in the year.She will be going into it with a string of successes at the Somerset ASA Counties, where she broke a number of records and was awarded Junior Para County Champion 2024.
Sophie has her sights set on the Paralympics in four years' time and she is hoping to progress into higher level competitions before then.But as she juggles training with school work, she hasn't quite made her mind up whether she wants to be a full time swimmer when she grows up."I still love subjects at school, so I'm trying to balance it out in my head."The British Junior Para-Swimming Championships 2024 take place at the Alan Higgs Centre, Coventry, on 8-9 June.
