Campaigners opposed to broadband poles being installed outside their homes turned up at the offices of the company responsible and told them: "Have a taste of your own medicine".  
Some have accused MS3 Networks of "littering" streets in Hedon, East Yorkshire, with telegraph poles. 
On Thursday, members of the Hedon Says No campaign group protested in front of MS3 Networks' offices in Hessle.
MS3 Networks said it would continue delivering its infrastructure.
Councillor Steve Gallant, chairman of the campaign group, handed over a formal letter of objection, addressed to MS3 Networks' chief Guy Miller, to a staff member at the site.
One Hedon resident also handed over a wooden pole. 
Placards waved towards the offices stated 1,061 households had signed forms pledging to boycott, for 10 years, MS3 Networks and its partners. 
Resident Ray Duffill told the BBC: "MS3 has caused absolute distress in our neighbourhood. Now we are returning the favour. We're giving them a taste of their own medicine."
Some campaigners mapped out, using coloured tape, markers on the road outside - just as the firm had done to show where holes should be dug for poles.
Julie Dervey, who helped organised the protest, added: "Today was about giving MS3 a taste of their own medicine, and to make our intentions absolutely clear."
She claimed the 1,061 households who had signed the boycott represented 80% of Hedon's total electorate.
Using social media, Hedon Says No has encouraged residents to peacefully thwart the company's efforts to install poles.
Despite this, Ms Dervey said several poles had been installed in Shields Road and Westlands Drive in the town. 
In response to the protest, Tony Jopling, chief operating officer at MS3 Networks, said: "We understand there is a group of people that wish to boycott MS3 and our channel partners. The broadband infrastructure we are installing may not be something that everyone in Hedon wants. 
"However, we want to reiterate that we are committed to providing choice and a credible alternative for full fibre broadband in the area.
"While we won't please everyone, our mission is clear and we are committed to continuing to deliver our infrastructure in line with regulations to provide it."
Mr Jopling added the company had received "hundreds of enquiries" from residents wishing to benefit from a greater choice of broadband provider.
Emma Hardy, MP for Hull West and Hessle, where poles have already been installed by MS3 Networks, said companies were using "permitted development rights" to install their own networks. This can be done legally without planning permission from local councils.
Earlier this week, Ms Hardy wrote to Sir John Whittingdale, the minister for data and digital infrastructure, to request greater powers for the regulator Ofcom.
Under Ofcom rules, KCOM - as the area's dominant telecom provider - is required to share its infrastructure.
Previously, Mr Miller said it had chosen not to seek KCOM's permission "due to the costs involved and the time taken to process [previous] requests".
Hugh Davies, from the firm Connexin, which has also installed infrastructure across East Yorkshire, confirmed it had applied to KCOM "for clarity on pricing and access" to KCOM's infrastructure.
KCOM insisted it had not received any request from any rival company to share its infrastructure, and where rivals were installing poles it was "entirely a commercial decision on their part". 
MS3 Networks has infrastructure - both poles and underground cables - installed in Hull. 
Connexin said it has installed cabling in Leven, Brandesburton, Tickton, Beeford and North Frodingham. 
Follow BBC East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
