A Harry Potter stunt double who was paralysed while filming the franchise said his Bafta TV nomination would give him a platform to help others.
The stunt performer, from Leigh-On-Sea, Essex, is the subject of David Holmes: The Boy Who Lived, which was nominated in the Single Documentary category.
Mr Holmes said: "My legacy on film is not me hitting that wall 15 years ago - my legacy is now the documentary."
Director Dan Hartley added the nomination was "totally unexpected".
In 2009, Mr Holmes broke his neck while rehearsing a stunt during the filming of The Deathly Hallows: Part 1 at Leavesden Studios, Hertfordshire.
He was paralysed from the chest down and now uses a wheelchair.
Reflecting on the nomination, he said: "I now have a responsibility - not just to the friends I made this film with, but also the wider disabled community, to use the platform that I'm gaining and hopefully influence positive change."
The HBO documentary, produced by Daniel Radcliffe, was shown on Sky Documentaries in November.
Mr Holmes was on stage at the NAIDEX Disability roadshow in Birmingham when he found out it had been nominated for a Bafta.
"I'm looking down at my phone as I'm addressing the audience and see the text message... since then my phone and social media has been pretty intense, but in a positive way."
There is no category for stunt performers at the Baftas or other major award shows. The former teenage gymnast hopes his nomination can start a conversation about changing that. 
"If this gives me the platform to call out that disparity, or just give the Academy a nudge that says stunt performers are artists... We risk our lives and our bodies for the sake of telling stories."
Mr Hartley, from Chesham, Buckinghamshire, said: "To get a Bafta nomination is humbling, wonderous and fantastic."
He added that it gave "a platform to Dave and everything he wants to do going forward", with "messages in the film that are really positive and really useful".
The main awards ceremony will take place on 12 May.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
