The Freedom Flame from beneath the Arc de Triomphe in Paris arriving by ferry to Portsmouth as part of D-Day 80th anniversary commemorations was among our most read this week in Hampshire and on the Isle of Wight.
A variety of local issues featured on the BBC News website, BBC Radio Solent and South Today. 
We have picked five stories to keep you up to date.
Work is under way to restore a British car that broke the land speed record almost 100 years ago.
Restoration to the Sunbeam 1000hp is being carried out at The National Motor Museum in Beaulieu, Hampshire.
Nicknamed The Slug, it was the first car to exceed 200mph in 1927 along Daytona beach in Florida, USA, with Maj Henry Segrave at the wheel.
The car, which was built in Wolverhampton, has not been run since the 1930s..
Lighting installed along new coastal defences around Southsea Castle has been unveiled.
The lights along the promenade of the Southsea Coastal Scheme were captured by drone as they were tested.
The area is expected to open to the public in late May.
The defences are being built along a 2.8-mile (4.5km) stretch of coast from Old Portsmouth to Eastney to protect 4,000 homes at direct risk from rising sea levels.
The Freedom Flame from beneath the Arc de Triomphe in Paris has been brought by ferry to Portsmouth as part of D-Day 80th anniversary commemorations.
Known as the Flamme de la Liberte, it has been burning since 1923 in front of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
A flotilla of vessels sailed with Brittany Ferries' Galicia to bring the flame into the harbour.
A former star of Australian soap Neighbours has been criticised for a video showing her touching and stroking free-roaming animals in the New Forest. 
April Rose Pengilly's Instagram showed her in the Hampshire national park petting foals and donkeys - which is not permitted under the area's rules. 
A forest ranger told the BBC petting was an "absolute no-go" as it was dangerous for both animals and humans.
Pengilly said she just gave them "a little pat [and] then let them be". 
The presenter of the first BBC regional television programme for the south of England has died, aged 89.
Martin Muncaster presented the nightly news programme South Today, which used to be known as South at Six, between 1961 and 1964. 
He previously described the experience as a "terrific feeling of starting something brand new" and "one of the happiest times of my whole career".
Mr Muncaster died at his home in Steep, near Petersfield.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2240.
