The spring campaign offering an NHS Covid booster jab to the most vulnerable across the UK closed on 30 June.Many pharmacies have started selling the jab privately. 
At the moment almost no one can get an NHS Covid jab. In line with current advice from the government's vaccine advisers, the JCVI and the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA), someone aged over six months with a weakened immune system would be eligible for a vaccine or booster, if their doctor thought it was clinically necessary. No details have yet been released about whether there will be an autumn booster campaign, or who would be eligible.

Fewer people were entitled to an NHS spring booster than were offered a jab during the autumn 2023 campaign. The eligible groups were:

Those at highest risk were invited first.The NHS sent texts, emails, NHS App messages or letters to those who were eligible. Appointments could also be booked directly via the NHS App, the NHS website, GPs, or local pharmacies, by calling 119, or by visiting a drop-in clinic.On 20 June, NHS England said more than four million people had received a spring booster jab. 

Vaccines from four different companies are in use across the UK: Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Sanofi/GSK and Novavax. The NHS spring booster campaign used mRNA vaccines made by either Pfizer or Moderna. Both have been updated to help protect against more recent strains of Covid. People were advised to take whichever they were offered, as all provide protection against severe illness or death.AstraZeneca withdrew its Covid vaccine worldwide because of the surplus of updated vaccines from its competitors. At the firm's request, in May 2024, the European Medicines Authority withdrew authorisation for the vaccine, which is no longer being manufactured or supplied.

A number of High Street chemists and private clinics have started selling and administering the Pfizer Covid vaccine directly to the public. The cost varies from about £45 to £99. You need to be aged 12 or above, and must not have had a Covid vaccine in the previous three months. You also need to talk to a health professional to check that it is suitable. A protein-based booster vaccine made by Novavax, which works differently to the Pfizer and Moderna jabs, should also be available to buy soon. Moderna is hoping to launch a combined flu and Covid vaccine in 2025 or 2026, after the jab passed a vital part of final-stage scientific checks in June 2024.Pfizer and BioNTech are testing a similar two-in-one mRNA vaccine against flu and Covid.
If you have Covid, or think you might, NHS advice is to delay vaccination until you feel better.It also recommends waiting if you have a high temperature or feel otherwise unwell with any illness. But there is no need to wait if you have recently recovered from Covid and feel well. The vaccines do not infect people with Covid, and cannot cause positive test results. 

For most people, side effects are mild. The most common include a sore arm, headache, chills, fatigue and nausea.They are part of the body's normal immune response to vaccination and tend to resolve themselves within a day or two.
Very rarely myocarditis - inflammation of the heart muscle - has been linked to the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines.It has also been listed as a rare possible side effect of the Novavax vaccine, after a very small number of cases were reported during clinical trials.There have also been extremely rare, but occasionally fatal, cases of people developing blood clots after taking the AstraZeneca vaccine.A very small number of people have experienced a severe allergic reaction after the Pfizer vaccine.Patients with serious allergies should talk to their healthcare professional before being vaccinated. 

