Free sugary drink refills could be banned at restaurants and cafes as part of new proposals by the Welsh government.Health Secretary Eluned Morgan has launched a consultation to restrict "promotions of food products high in fat, sugar and salt". It also proposes to restrict retailers from putting forward offers, such as buy one get one free, on unhealthy food.The Welsh government said it was "supporting people in Wales to make the healthy choice". 
The consultation outlines proposed legislation which the Welsh government said was "taking action to improve our food environment". The Welsh government said food products with poor nutritional value were promoted more than healthier products, which then influenced the food and drink people buy. 
Hayden Roberts, 28, a restaurant worker from Wrexham, thinks the restrictions will help people to eat more healthily. "Because of these offers, food that's bad for you is cheaper than food that is good for you," he said."If they put these things in place people might be encouraged to buy healthier food."Vishley Furtado, 21, a student, said it was harder to eat healthier these days due to cost. "A lot of things have gone up in price. You should eat healthier and they should promote that," he said."They should try to make healthier food more affordable."Karen Salisbury and Sian Roberts, both from Wrexham, said children need to be educated on what they are eating. "More and more kids these day don't know vegetables," said Karen.The deadline date for consultation feedback is midnight on 23 September. If the proposals are approved by the Senedd, it will come into force in 2025. 
The Welsh government has confirmed that meal deal restrictions do not form part of the draft regulations it is currently consulting on.Last year, plans to restrict meal deals with a high fat, sugar or salt content were announced in Wales to tackle obesity and diabetes.At the time, retailers raised concerns with food prices remaining high, and an eating disorder charity said it could be detrimental to those in recovery.The Welsh government said the restrictions would be rolled out from 2025.In June 2020, Scotland "paused" a new bill to place restrictions on the promotion of junk food due to the Covid pandemic.Plans to ban two-for-one junk food deals were delayed by the UK government until at least 2025. David Chapman, Executive Director of UKHospitality Cymru, a trade body who represent bars and restaurants, said they will be consulting members on the proposals and respond to the consultation in due course.
A Welsh government spokesman said it wanted to support people in Wales to make the "healthy" and "easy choice when it comes to food shopping and eating out.""This proposed legislation is part of a broad range of approaches, both voluntary and regulatory, that we are considering to encourage the food and retail sector to produce, promote and sell healthier food and drink," he added.Sam Rowlands, Welsh Conservative shadow health minister, called the proposal "over the top" and will "exacerbate the cost of living for the poorest in society".  “While healthy eating is important, the Welsh Conservatives believe that you have a right to decide what you eat and drink. Clearly Labour do not,” he added. Five Guys have been asked to comment.
