The name of Dad's Army actor Ian Lavender will live on because of one phrase, a museum chairman has predicted.
Lavender, Private Pike in the BBC comedy series, has died aged 77.
Stuart Wright, chairman of the Dad's Army Museum in Thetford, Norfolk, said Lavender would be remembered because of the "Don't tell him, Pike!" line.
He joked the warning would be called out when St Peter asked for Lavender's name at the "Pearly Gates".
Dad's Army, which ran between 1968 and 1977, featured the exploits of the fictional Walmington-on-Sea Home Guard during the World War Two and was filmed in Thetford.
Lavender, who lived in Woolpit, Suffolk, was the last surviving member of the main cast.
The IMDb website says the "Don't tell him, Pike!" line has often been voted as "one of the funniest moments" in the history of British television comedy.
In the 1973 episode, The Deadly Attachment, platoon members guard some captured Nazi U-boat crew.
The U-Boat captain says he is making a list of people who will be "brought to account".
He points at Pike and says: "Your name will also go on the list. What is it?!"
Platoon commander Capt Mainwaring blurts out: "Don't tell him, Pike!"
Mr Wright said: "Ian Lavender will forever be remembered because of that one line. It is one of the most repeated lines.
"When he has his name taken by St Peter at the Pearly Gates, I imagine Mainwaring will be there shouting out the warning. I'm sure that's a joke Ian heard."
Mr Wright said Lavender's death marked a new phase for the museum. which opened in 2007.
"He's the last of the main characters," said Mr Wright.
"His death takes us on to a another stage of the museum."
He said Lavender had visited the museum a number of times.
"I met him several times," said Mr Wright.
"He never wanted to let the Dad's Army side down because he knew what the series meant to people.
"But I just wonder whether he thought the Pike role pigeon-holed him and led to him missing out on other opportunities."
Mr Wright said the museum would consider creating an exhibition in Lavender's honour.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
