A nonprofit group is recommending that a settlement from Volkswagen rigging emissions testing should be used to purchase electric vehicle fast charging stations and electric buses.
A report from ConnPIRG Education Fund finds that $51.6 Million from the Volkswagen settlement is headed to Connecticut to help clean up the state’s transportation system and recommends using the funds to purchase electric vehicle fast charging stations for the state’s highways along with an aggressive expansion of all-electric transit buses to replace aging, dirty, diesel buses.
The report finds that this amount of investment could purchase 154 fast charging stations and 54 all-electric, zero-emissions buses, reducing dangerous pollution and saving money, all while accelerating further market transformation to an all-electric transportation system.
“Volkswagen lied to the American people and the residents of Connecticut paid the price,” said Kate Cohen, ConnPIRG Education Fund State Director. “VW’s crime is now an historic opportunity to help clean up our transportation system and accelerate the transition to a cleaner, healthier, 21st century transportation network. We must make sure these funds are not squandered on dirty, outdated technology like diesel and natural gas instead of all-electric options that can help save lives and protect the planet.” she added.
Last year, Connecticut officials announced that the state will receive $16.3 million from Volkswagen as part of a $603 million settlement with states over the manufacturer’s rigging of software to mask emissions in diesel vehicles it sold in the United States.
An investigation found that Volkswagen sold more than 11,900 rigged vehicles in Connecticut between 2009 and 2015. The office of Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen has posted a list online at www.ct.gov/ag of affected vehicles that include diesel models of Audi A3, Beetle, Golf, Jetta, and Passat.

        
    
Connecticut had sought separate claims against Volkswagen for violating the state’s environmental laws. Jepsen’s office stated Tuesday that Connecticut is eligible to receive in excess of $51 million from a $2.7 billion trust created by Volkswagen to support environmental programs.
Of the civil damages outlined in the VW settlement, roughly $10 billion will go toward compensating affected consumers, and the remaining $4.7 billion will be divided into two separate funds to mitigate the environmental damages VW caused. Of that $4.7 billion, $2.7 billion will be placed in an Environmental Mitigation Trust and sent directly to states based on the number of affected vehicles in that state.
Gov. Dannel P. Malloy will be able to formally request the funds and appoint one of the state’s agencies to develop and administer a plan for how they will be used.
The new report recommends that states use the maximum allowable amount of EMT funds, 15 percent, on the purchase and installation of fast charging stations for the state’s highways. Such chargers can fully charge a zero-emissions, all-electric vehicle in fewer than 30 minutes. “Greater installation of electric vehicle charging stations has a direct and substantial correlation on further personal EV adoption,” said Cohen. “Investing in fast charging stations helps ease consumers’ fears of running out of juice while on the road, which remains one of the biggest impediments to electric vehicle adoption, even as the technology and range continue to improve and costs continue to decrease,” she remarked.
The report further recommends using the remaining EMT funds, 85 percent, to purchase all-electric transit buses to replace aging, dirty, diesel buses. The report’s analysis is based, in part, on the fact that the most unlinked passenger trips are taken on transit buses, more than any other mode of public transit. The report finds, therefore, that investing in all-electric transit buses could potentially reduce inhalation of toxic fumes for the greatest possible number of people over the broadest possible area, relative to investment in other modes. The report finds that such widespread public exposure has the potential to further accelerate the market transformation to all-electric vehicles, a key component of future success fighting air pollution and combating global warming.
