A campaign has been launched in Lincolnshire to increase the number of women who breastfeed. NHS Lincolnshire Integrated Care Board (ICB) said the number of women breastfeeding in the county is below the national average, with only 66% of newborn babies receiving breastmilk, compared to a 70% regional average.The scheme, #LatchonLincolnshire, is a collaboration between NHS Lincolnshire teams and Lincolnshire County Council (LCC). Parents in Lincolnshire showing their support for breastfeeding will be shown on bus advertisements, social media and radio and TV adverts.
The board said only 43% of Lincolnshire women continue to breastfeed after six to eight weeks, lower than the national average of 49%. NHS Lincolnshire ICB said the Lincolnshire Maternity and Neonatal system is committed to supporting more women to breastfeed and increase breastfeeding rates at six to eight weeks.The photos of parents who support the campaign aims to acknowledge the challenges breastfeeding mothers face, with slogans such as 'did you know' and 'it's okay'.
Mother-of-four Lottie Middlemass, 39, who lives in Lincoln, breastfeeds her four-year-old daughter Quinn.She told BBC Radio Lincolnshire: "I really enjoy breastfeeding, it's such a bond and such a special time only I can do with her."The tough times are outweighed by the really positive things."She said she breastfeeds Quinn as a "comfort" before bedtime, for around a minute before she falls asleep.Ms Middlemass added: "It's her choice. I'm confident now that other people's opinions don't matter as much as what my daughter wants."Supportive people around me make that part easy."
Marie Jarrett, lead in quality assurance for Childrens Centres at Lincolnshire County Council, said: "There are so many health benefits for breastfeeding. "We know that it meets all the baby's nutritional needs, it protects the baby from infectious diseases."It's convenient and there whenever you want it and helps to build that strong emotional bond."
Follow BBC Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastyorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
