Women say they feel unsafe as a convicted sex offender - wanted over a death a month ago - has still not been found. 
Richard Scatchard, 70, from Minehead, went missing last month following the death of his partner at his home.
Minehead resident Nina Huyshe said it had "always been a relatively safe town" but people now "just don't feel that safe any more".
Avon and Somerset Police said it was "absolutely focused" on finding him.
Kelly Faiers, 61, from Weston-super-Mare was found "critically ill" before dying in Minehead on 15 October.
Scatchard is wanted on a recall to prison and police say there have been more than 90 sightings of him in the area.
A spokesperson for the force said while they understood local concerns, Scatchard posed more of a risk to women he had already built relationships with.
But Ms Huyshe, who runs a local Facebook group, said she saw daily posts about people's concerns regarding him.
"The main concern is that they open and close businesses within the town and with the nights drawing in, they're walking to and from in the dark, not knowing who's around," she said.
"They want to know where he is, they want him to hand himself in. 
"A lot of people are now carrying personal attack alarms, so should someone approach them they can whip it out because they just don't feel safe."
Avon and Somerset Police previously said Ms Faiers and Scatchard went to The Duke of Wellington pub in Minehead for a drink on 14 October.
Early the next morning, Scatchard called the ambulance service to Blenheim Road.
Ms Faiers was pronounced dead by medics at the house and police were called.
The following afternoon, officers wanted to ask Scatchard more questions and went to the house but found it empty. He was last seen on CCTV in Watchet on 16 October.
Sally Turner, manager at Minehead's Information Centre, said she and her friends were taking extra precautions.
"Me and my friends would be silly if we weren't extra vigilant, because it's a very rare event," she said.
"I'm letting my family and friends know where I'm going and when I'll be home."
Det Supt Lisa Simpson, from Avon and Somerset Police, said officers were concerned Scatchard might approach women using dating apps.
"His previous behaviour, along with information we have gathered since his disappearance, makes us anxious that he may have formed a new relationship with one or more women and that he presents a serious risk to their safety.
"Scatchard is a prolific user of dating apps and has previously been convicted of sexual offences in which he administered drugs to his victims to enable his crimes," she said.
She added: "This is not about a sexual offender springing on women in the hours of darkness.
"I understand why people are scared, I really want to reassure them that this is not what Mr Scatchard is likely to do.
"At the moment, the focus is trying to find him."
Follow BBC West on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: bristol@bbc.co.uk 
