A proposal from U.S. Reps Tom Marino and Lou Barletta would allow federal prosecutors to impanel a second jury for death penalty sentencing if they don’t like the outcome a first jury returned, according to more details available Friday about the bill.
Under the bill — HR 4493 — federal prosecutors can call for a retrial for the sentencing phase of a death penalty case if a jury doesn’t return a unanimous verdict.
Read the proposal
If the second jury doesn’t reach a unanimous decision, the sentence would be life in prison or another penalty that is less than death.
Barletta, R-11, Hazleton, and Tom Marino, R-10, Lycoming Twp., named the proposal “Eric’s Law,” in honor of Eric Williams, a Nanticoke native and correctional officer at U.S. Penitentiary at Canaan who was killed February 2013 in the prison by inmate Jessie Con-ui.
Con-ui was already serving a life sentence for a 2002 murder in Phoenix. Con-ui admitted to the killing and a jury found him guilty of Williams’ murder but could not reach a unanimous sentence, with 11 of the 12 jurors voting to sentence voted him to death. Five hours of discussion did not break an impasse.
Jurors interviewed by The Citizens’ Voice after the trial reported that the holdout mentioned a son in prison and said she sympathized with Con-ui’s mother. Marino and Barletta seized upon that detail in a press release Thursday announcing the proposal.
“I was disappointed and shocked to learn that the murderer was let off under the same penalty he was already serving when he committed this atrocity. Despite the gruesome nature of the crime, admittance of guilt, and overwhelming opinion by the jury, one juror felt they should derail justice,” Barletta wrote in the release.

        
    
Under circumstances like that, prosecutors should have the option to try the penalty phase a second time, the lawmakers said.
“If the jury comes back 9-3 or something like that, you have reasonable minds that are disagreeing, and I don’t think the prosecutor would probably ask for a retrial. I think this would be used in very narrow situations, such as in Eric’s case,” said Judd Smith, Marino’s legislative director.
Under the proposal, the ability to request a new trial is at the discretion of federal prosecutors, but if prosecutors make the request, a judge must grant it.
If the first jury unanimously returns another sentence, such as life in prison, prosecutors won’t have the ability to request the second sentencing trial.
In most states that impose the death penalty, a deadlocked jury in a death penalty case results in a life imprisonment sentence for a defendant. But in at least three states, prosecutors have the option of retrying the penalty phase with a new jury. Marino and Barletta modeled their proposal after laws in Arizona, California and Kentucky.
Federal death penalty cases are rare.
Since the reinstatement of the federal death penalty in 1988, 76 defendants have been sentenced to death in federal court and three have been executed, according to the Death Penalty Information Center. There are currently 61 people on federal death row.
Marino introduced the bill Thursday and it was referred to the House Judiciary Committee.
Contact the writer:
[email protected]
570-821-2051, @CVBillW
