A large fire that spread across a field and into gardens, destroying three cars, has been contained.
The blaze broke out in a field next to the A443, close to the village of Great Witley, in Worcestershire.
More than 40 firefighters were involved in bringing it under control with one witness describing a "huge black ball of smoke in the air".
The fire service advised people to avoid the area and residents to keep doors and windows closed.
Emma Walker described seeing a "huge black ball of smoke in the air" as she approached the village in her car.
"I was worried what it was and when I got closer I could see there was a raging fire through this garden behind a property next to the garage in Great Witley," she explained.
"It was escalating very fast.
"There was already two fire engines outside the property and they were moving all of the gas bottles out of the garage, as I think they were fearful the garage was going to get hit next."
Farmer Andrew Goodman, said the fire in a stubble field was "quite small to begin with".
"But within half an hour it had escalated to quite a major incident," he said.
"It had gone up the field but more worryingly it had spread along the hedge line to the houses there - and then there is the garage which is right next to the houses. 
"So it was quite concerning."
It was particularly worrying, he said, because "everything is so dry in the area".
"In 30 years of farming I've never known crops to be harvested this dry, it's quite incredible," Mr Goodman added.
Robert Sproat, of Hereford and Worcester fire service, said they were initially called to the "significant" fire at about 14:00 BST.
"The hedgerows and field burnt quickly as it was wind-assisted," he explained. 
Water carriers, a drone and several off-road vehicles were all used in tackling the blaze, he added. 
Garage staff had been "extremely helpful" in assisting firefighters to quickly stop the fire from spreading.
Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
