A 29-year-old man who was sentenced this week to up to 34 years in prison was the last of four to be sentenced in a case in which authorities found firearms and bombs stashed throughout a rural Saunders County property last year.
Video cameras were perched in the trees, and a car outside appeared rigged to explode. In addition to methamphetamine, there were young children in the home.
Victor Roberts had previously pleaded no contest to being a felon in possession of a weapon, drug possession and possession of explosive devices as part of an agreement with prosecutors.
District Court Judge Mary C. Gilbride found Roberts guilty and sentenced him to 10 to 30 years on the weapon charge, two years on the drug charge and two years on the explosives charge, Saunders County Attorney Steven Twohig said. Roberts was given credit for 404 days already served.
Assuming that he loses no good time, Roberts will serve 7 to 17 years under state sentencing guidelines, according to court documents.
Earlier this year, three others pleaded guilty and were sentenced: Christopher Frommie, 37; Lindsay Blair, 29; and Heather Morgan, 33.
Frommie was sentenced to 10 years in prison after pleading guilty to charges of conspiracy to distribute methamphetamine and using a gun to further a drug crime.
Blair and Morgan were sentenced to probation. Frommie was sentenced in federal court. The other two were sentenced in District Court.

        
    
On March 16, 2017, the Saunders County Sheriff’s Office and the III Corps Drug Task Force raided the house and arrested Frommie, Blair and Morgan. Authorities arrested Roberts later.
Investigators recovered 15 firearms (at least one with a defaced serial number), four explosive devices (two rigged to a car parked outside), three silencers and a small amount of methamphetamine and marijuana.
Three children belonging to Morgan lived at the home. One was a toddler, one was 8 years old and one was 10. They were turned over to their biological father.
The guns ran the gamut from rifles to shotguns to a Mac 11 machine pistol.
The Nebraska State Patrol bomb squad was called in after the explosives were found. All were detonated on-site.
Asked why the group had accumulated such firepower, Twohig said: “Protection. And the bravado of wanting to take out people who were coming after them, which would be inclusive of government officials and law enforcement.”
The house is off U.S. Highway 77, about 3 miles north of Mead.
