There have been renewed calls for a bypass after the latest Orwell Bridge closure caused gridlock traffic. 
The eastbound carriageway of the bridge at Ipswich was shut for most of Friday, after an inspection vehicle broke down. 
In February 2020, plans for a £500m Northern Route bypass were abandoned due to lack of "political support".
Jack Abbott, Labour prospective parliamentary candidate for Ipswich, said the town would "continue to suffer" unless the bypass was built.
"Ipswich's poor infrastructure is not only hugely inconvenient for local residents, but it is also hurting businesses and shackling the economic prosperity of our local, and regional economy," he said.
After initial bypass plans were scrapped, Tory-run Suffolk County Council's cabinet agreed to create a task force to work on improving congestion in the town, which was chaired by Ipswich's two Conservative MPs Tom Hunt and Dan Poulter. 
"Despite initially promising 'action and delivery', over three years later they admitted they'd made 'no meaningful change'. What a waste. What a failure," said Mr Abbott. 
In a Facebook post, Mr Hunt said he had "long backed a northern bypass" in Ipswich. 
"It's unhealthy that we're so utterly dependent on the bridge being open... the moment that bridge closures it chokes off the town and there is zero alternative."
Mr Hunt said he had requested a meeting with National Highways to discuss the reasons for the "severe disruption".
"What I want to see is a flexible, pragmatic, can-do attitude to keeping the bridge open," he said. 
In a post on X, the Conservative MP for Suffolk Coastal, Therese Coffey, said: "Orwell Bridge should not have been closed for so long, hindering households and harming the economy. 
"Equipment can and does break down, but the lack of resilience is ridiculous. 
"I've asked National Highways CEO for a meeting on improving backup and breakdown response."
Natalie Caraccio, managing director of Shore Logistics in Felixstowe, said she would welcome the idea of an alternative route due to the knock-on effect bridge closures had on drivers and companies.
"Winter is the hardest time because you've got high winds [which close the bridge], you're more likely to get accidents because of the bad road conditions… every closure has an impact.
"The infrastructure needs to change so that it can cope with demand."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 18
