A woman has appeared in court charged with murdering an 88-year-old man who was stabbed to death at a supermarket in south Wales.
John Rees was fatally injured at the Co-op, in Penygraig, Rhondda, at about 13:45 BST on Tuesday.
Zara Anne Radcliffe, 29, from Porth, only spoke to confirm her name and address before Cardiff magistrates.
She is also accused of the attempted murder of Lisa Way, Gaynor Saurin and Andrew Price.
Mr Price is said to be in a stable condition at the University Hospital of Wales, while the two women sustained non-life-threatening injuries.
Mr Rees, a grandfather from Trealaw, has been described by his family as "the very definition of a good man, extremely respected and liked in the community".
In a statement, his relatives added: "He was proud of his family, proud to be a Welshman and devoted to All Saints Church. We will all miss him terribly."
The Church in Wales has confirmed that bells, which had been rung in previous weeks by Mr Rees in honour of key workers will ring again at All Saints Church on Thursday evening.
Mr Rees, a longstanding member of the church community along with his wife Eunice, had served on the Parochial Church Council at the church in Trealaw.
The Church in Wales said a memorial service could take place at the church when it reopens, if the family request one.
Trealaw councillor Joy Rosser said she would be out clapping for Mr Rees later, when the church bells are ringing: "John was a very private person, he was a true gentleman and a committed family man devoted to his wife Eunice for whom he was carer. 
"My heart goes out to his wife and family, he was an avid church-goer and was one of those who rang the bells for the NHS on Thursday evenings. 
"I know I represent the views of the community in saying that prayers and thoughts are with the family and indeed all those who are affected by this tragic incident."
The two women injured in the incident have now both returned home following treatment.
Jodie Pope, the daughter of Royal Glamorgan Hospital nurse Lisa Way, said on social media: "Mam is home and we all feel very blessed and lucky that she is. 
"Lisa Way is loved by so many. She is an inspirational hero with so much bravery and strength and we all as a family are incredibly proud of her!
"Our thoughts are with the family who have not been as lucky as us."
Ms Radcliffe was remanded in custody and will appear before Cardiff Crown Court on Monday.
South Wales Police initially referred their handling of the case to the watchdog, the Independent Office for Police Conduct. 
An IOPC spokesman said: "We have decided that an investigation by the IOPC is not required, and the referral has been returned to the force."
