A head teacher is suing the parents of two pupils over harassment claims. Kevin Flanagan, head teacher at Pensby High School in Wirral, is bringing the claims against Keith and Stephanie Critchley to the High Court. The couple said they set up a Facebook group called "FamiliesFightFlanagan" as well as an Instagram page and a petition, in response to "bullying" of  their daughters. Mr Flanagan is asking for damages from the couple, who deny the claims.
Brabners, representing Mr Flanagan, said there had been "significant personal distress for him and his family" and "unnecessary and upsetting disruption for the school". Mr Flanagan claimed the parents had been abusive and threatening several times, including during a meeting where Mr Critchley was said to have become "angry, aggressive, and highly abusive" and to have been "on the brink of physically attacking" the head teacher.The parents denied the claim and said they raised concerns that their daughters were being bullied "on a daily basis" at the school but were not being listened to. According to legal papers, Mrs Critchley set up the Facebook group in May 2023 claiming she was "sick to the back teeth" of Mr Flanagan’s "disrespect". 
The family said this had been "the only way they could bring attention to their experience of the claimant" and that they were "exercising their right to freedom of expression and opinion". The Critchleys later sent an email to Wirral Council with 40 allegations against Mr Flanagan, which he claims are false. The council said told the couple to contact the school directly and told the school a complaint had been made to Ofsted.As part of the claims, the couple are also being asked to not enter the school or a restricted zone around it, appear at or enter Mr Flanagan’s home, publish any material about Mr Flanagan, or knowingly drive within 50m of him.An injunction is also being sought to make them take down the Facebook group.  
Listen to the best of BBC Radio Merseyside on Sounds and follow BBC Merseyside on Facebook, X, and Instagram. You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
