Countries worldwide are wrestling with when and how to 
ease the restrictions meant to slow the spread of the coronavirus
 amid rising unemployment. 
Spain
, which imposed one of the strictest lockdowns in Europe in mid-March, announced it will start easing restrictions on children.
In the U.S., 
17 governors
 whose states are home to about half the country’s population have joined one of three regional pacts meant to smooth the eventual reopening of their economies. Adding to the pressure are 
protests 
 against stay-at-home orders organized by small-government groups and Trump supporters. And in a symbolic nod to normalcy, Vice President Mike Pence 
delivered a commencement address
 at the U.S. Air Force Academy, a trip aimed at showing the country is on course to gradually reopen after weeks of shutdowns. 
Meanwhile, a new wave of infections is threatening to overwhelm 
hospitals in Japan.
Here are some of The Associated Press’ top stories Saturday on the coronavirus pandemic. Follow 
APNews.com/VirusOutbreak
 for updates through the day and 
APNews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak
 for stories explaining some of its complexities.
— African Americans and Native American 
communities are being hit hard 
 by the virus. In New Mexico, Native Americans account for nearly 37% of the state’s 1,484 confirmed cases and about 11% of the state’s population. The 
Navajo Nation
 ordered all people on the tribe’s sprawling reservation to wear protective masks when out in public.

        
    
— New York’s daily toll of coronavirus deaths hit its 
lowest point
 in more than two weeks. 
— Global “brain drain” of medical professionals to richer countries has 
 left developing nations without tens of thousands 
 of highly skilled workers.
— Frustration boiled over into anger during a private call between Pence and Democratic senators over 
coronavirus testing plans.
— An 
all-star streaming and TV special
 aimed at fighting the pandemic featured the likes of Lady Gaga, The Rolling Stones, Paul McCartney, Stevie Wonder, Taylor Swift, Oprah Winfrey and Billie Eilish.
— 
Youth and amateur athletics in the U.S.
 are bracing for financial and membership downturns because of the pandemic.
— 
The U.S. and Canada
 say they will keep their common border closed to nonessential traffic for 30 more days.
For most people, the coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough that clear up in two to three weeks. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia. The vast majority of people recover.
Here are the 
symptoms of the virus compared with the common flu.
One of the best ways to prevent the spread of the virus is through frequent hand-washing with soap and water. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends first washing with warm or cold water and then lathering soap for 20 seconds to get it on the backs of hands, between fingers and under fingernails before rinsing off.
Phones should also be washed. 
Here’s how.
TRACKING THE VIRUS: 
Drill down and zoom in at the individual county level
 and you can access numbers that will show you the situation where you are, and where loved ones or people you’re worried about live.
ONE NUMBER:
— 
20,000
: Africa surpasses 20,000 COVID-19 cases and more than 1,000 deaths.
IN OTHER NEWS
:
— 
TEACHER TV
: Lessons are given over the airwaves to students stuck at home.
— 
A RARE GOODBYE
: Israeli hospital takes the unusual step of allowing patients dying of COVID-19 to be visited by their loved ones.
— 
SKI RESORT HELP
: Young workers from Latin America who are stranded at U.S. ski resorts get food and lodging assistance.
Follow AP coverage of the virus outbreak at 
https://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak
 and 
https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak
