Sugababes say women face less pressure to look perfect now than when the band first rose to fame in the 2000s.
Keisha Buchanan said there's been a "lot of change" in the industry since, and it was "not necessarily negative".
The band were speaking ahead of a performance on Friday at Chepstow Racecourse, in Monmouthshire, alongside Lionel Richie and Gabrielle.
Lewis Capaldi had been due to perform at the venue on Saturday, but postponed his tour to focus on his mental health.
Sugababes reformed last year with their original line-up of Keisha Buchanan, Mutya Buena and Siobhan Donaghy, after the trio previously performed under the name MKS.
Keisha told Radio Wales Drive: "I think there's been a lot of positive change [in the industry] as well... I think there was way more pressure to look perfect back in the day, and now not so much.
"I'm seeing women embracing their bodies and going out there and killing it and being comfortable and we're just all for that."
Siobhan said there were "so many" incredible female artists in the UK currently, especially in RnB, and they deserve a shot at headlining more major festivals.
She said the current lack of female headliners at major UK festivals was a problem needing to be tackled on "many levels".
"From who the music industry invests in, who they continue to invest in once a person is of a certain age, there are so many factors that go into it," she said. 
The band spoke of their excitement at playing with "legends" Lionel Richie and Gabrielle at Chepstow, before going on to a solo show at London's O2 arena and supporting Take That later in the year.
"It's been so lovely, last year was our big comeback and it's just been onward and upward, we've had a lot of fun, we're getting more confident on stage and just taking it in," added Keisha. 
Ahead of the weekend of music at Chepstow, that will also feature George Ezra on Sunday, Joe Robinson, of promoters Cuffe and Taylor, said it was "a major opportunity" for the town's economy. 
Capaldi had been due to perform at the racecourse on Saturday, but the 26-year-old announced after his Glastonbury performance last weekend that it was obvious he needed to spend "much more time getting my mental and physical health in order".
Capaldi was visibly emotional during his Glastonbury set as the crowd carried him through songs when he struggled with his voice.
Mark Duthie, of The George pub in Chepstow said he was expecting to be busy but it was a shame the Saturday concert with Capaldi was not going ahead. 
He said big events brought a lot of people into the town, with many going for a drink or a bite to eat before the concert, so businesses were expecting thousands more walk-ins across the weekend. 
"Saturday was the one that everyone was talking about… it will impact financially because it will be quieter than we expected to be," he said.
People are expected to camp out around the racecourse this weekend ahead of George Ezra headlining on Sunday. 
Transport for Wales said it expected train services to be busy and advised people to check before they travel.
Organisers have also warned ticket holders to plan their journeys with roads expected to be busy.
Mr Robinson said: "We have hundreds of members of staff that work on the site, on the bars and the merchandise, the food.
"Often we source a lot of people locally from the local area, giving a lot of young people opportunity to get involved at a festival site that perhaps they've never had the opportunity to work out before.
"The financial impact is great when you bring a big festival to a town. Lots of people stay in hotels use taxis, use the bus network, the trains, local restaurants will have may perhaps make a weekend of it particularly in somewhere so pretty as Chepstow."
