Boundary changes have created a new seat that promises to be hotly contested in Devon.The newly formed constituency of Honiton and Sidmouth will see two sitting MPs go head to head in the general election on 4 July.Both towns have historically been Conservative strongholds, but Liberal Democrat Richard Foord overturned a 24,000 majority to win the Honiton and Tiverton seat in a by-election in 2022.Sidmouth was previously in the East Devon constituency held by Conservative MP Simon Jupp.
Labour and the Green Party are also fielding candidates in the seat in east Devon.When asked what was important to them in the 2024 general election, people living in the area cited housing, immigration and sewage as some of their main concerns.
Jane Pearce, from Sidmouth, said she wanted fewer sewage spills into the sea."That's really important - especially here," she said."We all swim in the sea and it's dreadful."Being honest, that's what is important to me - honesty, integrity - and I'm not sure how many politicians have got that."
Gill Cook, another Sidmouth resident, said she was concerned about new homes and immigration."I don't think currently it's been tackled in the right place," she said."And the economy generally, we've got to try and grow that and that's what I'll be looking for."Whoever I think can deliver that then that's who I'll be voting for."
Stephen Brokenshire said he wanted the government to stay as it is.He said: "They actually said a few years ago it's going to get worse before it gets better."Now it's starting to get better and I just want them to see it through."
In Honiton, resident Rachel Mandrupson said she wanted more help to be given to retailers on the high street."I think anything that entices people back into the shops and get them into our communities is the main thing, that's what I would like," she said.
For Pamela John in Honiton, potholes are a big issue."The taxes are so high for us and the state of the roads around here, the potholes are a joke now," she said."Where is the money going? Because it's not going into the general surroundings."
Richard Foord, currently the Liberal Democrat MP for Tiverton and Honiton, said: "The Liberal Democrats are the principal challenger to the Conservatives here in Honiton and Sidmouth."We're going to be standing on a platform of a stable economy, we need health services to be available to us locally in our community."And we need improvements to our environment, particularly to prevent the filthy sewage being spilled into the sea as has been the case under this Conservative government."
Simon Jupp, who is now Conservative MP for East Devon, said: "I've got a plan, I've got a record of delivery."A new school to replace Tipton St John primary, money from South West Water to upgrade water infrastructure and a campaign to reopen Honiton Police Station and so much more."I've got a plan for delivery. I want to be the champion for Honiton and Sidmouth in parliament."
The Labour candidate for the constituency, Jake Bonetta, said: "What we need is a decade of national renewal through a Labour government and we want to provide that to all people across the country including in Honiton and Sidmouth."We want to deliver on the six pledges that Keir Starmer has laid out over the last couple of days and we also want to make sure we've got some economic stability going into the future."
Other candidates for the Honiton and Sidmouth seat currently are Henry Gent for the Green Party and Paul Quickenden for Reform UK.An official list of all the candidates will be published by 7 June.
Follow BBC Devon on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk.
