While setting her sights toward the 2020 Olympics, four-time Olympic gold medalist Simone Biles for the moment is content to forego the daily grind of gymnastics training for time with her family and a well-deserved vacation.
Biles, 19, returned this week to her home in Spring after a 36-city USA Gymnastics tour and promotional appearances in support of her autobiography, titled “Courage to Soar.”
Other than a few events, including her duties Thursday as co-grand marshal of Houston’s Thanksgiving Day parade, she will spend the next few weeks with family before resuming another book tour and sponsorship appearances after the first of the year.
Her holiday agenda, she said Tuesday, includes giving thanks for some of the gifts that are the focus of her book, the ability to discover and pursue the things she enjoys in life and the role that faith and family play in helping them become reality.
“I wanted to talk about family, competition and things like downfalls and injuries so that kids can understand that I go through those things, too,” she said. “Kids today talk about faith, and I think it’s OK for me to share my faith so kids can see how it helps you through the whole process.”
Biles has spent precious little time at home since the Olympics ended in late August, and those three months have included significant moments, including her first vote in a presidential election, the departure for Florida of her longtime coach, Aimee Boorman, the unauthorized disclosure of her medical records by WikiLeaks, and a couple of brushes with some of the more unwelcome aspects of life in the public eye.

        
    
Breaking news
Boorman, who was Biles’ primary coach for more than a decade, informed her parents, Ron and Nellie Biles, before the Olympics that she planned to leave the Houston area to begin work at a gym in Florida. The couple asked Boorman not to share her plans with their daughter until after she finished Olympic competition, and Biles said Boorman broke the news to her in Rio two days after her final Olympic event.
“It was a little bit heartbreaking, and it still makes me sad to know that she won’t coach me anymore,” Biles said. “But I’m excited for her journey to see where it takes her and coaching other elite kids. She needs to do what makes her happy.”
Boorman’s departure led to questions as to whether Biles would resume training after the Olympics and whether she would follow her coach to Florida or remain at World Champions Centre, which the Biles family opened last year in suburban Montgomery County.
Biles, though, said she intends to return to competition with an eye on the 2020 Tokyo Games and will continue to train at the family-owned gym, although she definitely will not compete in 2017.
“I still have a strong passion for gymnastics,” she said. “My body is doing well, which is a plus. The Olympics is so much fun, and you always have an Olympics high and say, ‘Let’s go to the next one.’”
She said she will make a decision on a coaching partner when the time comes, although Ron and Nellie Biles expect a current staff member to fill the vacancy left by Boorman’s departure.
“I think I could coach myself, but it helps to have guidance and for someone to crack the whip and tell you when to condition and how many sets you need to do,” Biles said. “I’m sure somebody will put up with it.”
Biles discloses in her book that she has taken medication for years for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder but was disappointed that news of her condition surfaced through hackers gaining access to World Anti-Doping Agency documents.
“It’s not that I’m ashamed of it. I tell kids about it,” she said. “But for them to bring that up as a reason why I won and to say that I was doping doesn’t make any sense.”
Similarly, she wrote on Twitter of her disappointment with critics of her post-Olympic appearance in a music video for the Jake Miller song “Overnight.”
“People were taking about my body and about doping and all that stuff, and you could tell it was from jealousy and from people who were angry and mad,” she said. “People forget that we do have feelings and that words can be hurtful.”
Such events could be an early portent for the next Olympic cycle. Her decision to resume training could place her in a similar light as Gabrielle Douglas, the 2012 Olympic all-around champion who was a frequent target for critics during her comeback for the 2016 Games.
Can’t be broken
Biles, however, said she is prepared to deal with critics.
“I’m a very stubborn person,” she said. “You can try to break me, but I’ll probably turn it around and use it for the better.”
Along with her book tour and her promotional links with Hershey, Nike, Kellogg’s, Core Power, GK Elite and United Airlines, Biles after the Olympics signed a deal with Houston-based Mattress Firm to support the Mattress Firm Foster Kids program.
Biles, who was adopted as a child by Ron, her grandfather, and Nellie Biles, said she was drawn to the Mattress Firm program “because it’s important to know that if you’re a foster kid, you can still dream big and do whatever. There’s no real downfall for us.”
Ron and Nellie Biles said they support their daughter’s decision to train toward 2020 but want her to have the option to seek other career paths if she prefers.
“This (gymnastics) is all Simone knows,” Nellie Biles said. “If the exposure she has between now and the time she has to make up her mind leads her to find something else she likes, she doesn’t have to come back. It’s good for her to have different experiences.”
While she was back at World Champions Centre on Tuesday, she wasn’t tempted to hop onto the uneven bars or balance beam.
“I won’t be doing anything on equipment any time soon,” she said. As to when that would be, she added, “I can’t say yet. I’m not sure.”
