Environmentalists have hailed the positive impact of a ground-breaking rewilding project as showing "the incredible power of nature to heal".Three female Bison were released into countryside near Canterbury, Kent, in July 2022 to help restore the area to its natural state. Two years on their numbers have doubled and the animals are having a huge impact in Blean and Thornden woods, where they are the UK's only free-roaming bison herd. The historic joint project between the Kent Wildlife Trust and Wildwood Trust has been deemed "a story of hope". 
Following the introduction of the original trio, the project has welcomed a bull bison and seen the birth of two baby bison. It has also overseen the release of Iron Age pigs, Exmoor ponies and longhorn cattle into the area. The monitoring programme has even identified species it thought were extinct. 
Bison ranger Hannah Mackins said: "The reserve is teeming with life in areas that were once in darkness, and you can feel a renewed energy in the woodland.“Everywhere you look, there are success stories of nature's resilience – from seeing dung beetle larvae to the monitoring programme discovering species of insects we thought were extinct."This project shows the incredible power of nature to heal and gives us hope for the future."
The project has won three national awards: The Big Biodiversity Challenge, a National Sustainability Award and a Global Good Award.The team have plans to connect the Blean landscape by working with the RSPB and Woodland Trust to create wildlife corridors across Canterbury.Work is underway to install giant bison bridges, which will allow people to walk on footpaths towering over the free roaming animals. Visitors can enjoy a bison safari with a ranger and the reserve has been shortlisted for two tourism awards. 
Ms Mackins said Blean's success has inspired everyone - from the general public to dedicated conservationists. She said: "It's remarkable to see how this project has sparked a passion for wildlife in people who may not have been interested in the nature reserve before."The project is the inspiration for a children's book, The Bison and the Butterfly, by author Alice Hemmings.Ms Mackins added: "Wilder Blean is more than just a conservation effort; it's a story of hope unfolding right in front of us.”
Follow BBC Kent on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250.
