The results of a survey suggest 75% of people in Bedford support the East West Rail (EWR) project.
The £5bn railway line will link Oxford and Cambridge via Bletchley, Milton Keynes and Bedford.
A poll of 1,000 residents on behalf of the company building the scheme also found 83% believed it would improve how people travelled in the area.
But campaigners have argued the survey does not necessarily reflect the opinions of the entire population.
About 75% of people, who were polled by telephone, also said it would boost access to education and essential public services like hospitals.
Beth West, CEO of East West Rail Company, said: "This survey is strong testament to the support Bedford residents have for the project and underpins how it will bring game-changing benefits to the local community."
As it stands, 37 homes in Bedford could be demolished along the preferred route through the town, with a further 28 which might lose part of their gardens through "partial land acquisition". 
Martin Yemm, who lives in Chawston and represents the BFARe Campaign group, was one of the people surveyed.
He said: "It's a good thing they've done this, but I hope they now listen to what people have told them.
"I find time and time again that you make a comment, that is then misconstrued completely and you get given an answer to something totally different."
Julia Virdee from the Protect Poets Campaign Group added: "A high percentage of 1,000 people being in favour of a rail link between Oxford and Cambridge does not equal vast support of a population of 187,000 plus Bedford residents supporting the current route alignment."
The mayor of Bedford, Conservative Tom Wootton, said he wanted time to read the survey before commenting.
Correction 6 March: This article originally reported that 60 homes will be demolished and was amended on the 5 March to explain that 37 homes in Bedford could be demolished along the preferred route through the town, while a further 28 might lose part of their gardens through "partial land acquisition". 
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
