Five candidates have been confirmed as standing in the election to replace Philip Allott as North Yorkshire Police, Fire and Crime Commissioner.
Mr Allott resigned after his comments about the murder of Sarah Everard led to public complaints and a vote of no confidence by the county's crime panel.
The vote will take place on Thursday 25 November.
These are the candidates who are confirmed as standing for election (listed alphabetically):
Dr Hannah Barham-Brown is a GP trainee in Yorkshire, Council Member of the British Medical Association and Deputy Leader of the Women's Equality Party. 
She said, if elected, she would call for an independent inquiry into misogyny and sexism in North Yorkshire Police.
She added she would ensure ending violence against women and girls was a political and police priority and would lobby other parties to adopt policies designed to end such violence.
"I'm determined to do all I can to ensure ending gender-based violence is our top priority in the county," she said. 
Dr Barham-Brown said she would provide a different template for how policing, with respect to ending violence against women and girls,  could and should be done.
RAF veteran James Barker has served as a councillor in York since 2019.
He said following the resignation of Philip Allott there was work to do to "rebuild the trust lost with victims' groups, women's groups and the public at large".
Priorities, he said, would include ensuring people had "faith that the PFCC listens to and supports victims of crime".
He would also like to improve non-emergency call responses and increase the visibility of officers in both rural and urban areas.
"I try to make a difference in whatever I do and my aim is to build a resilient, professional and diverse police and fire service representing and working for the people of York and North Yorkshire," he said.
Ms Metcalfe sits on Harrogate Borough Council and North Yorkshire County Council and also works as project manager for a property company.
According to the Local Democracy Reporting Service, she said her campaign would "focus on improving safety for women and girls across North Yorkshire, supporting victims of crime and tackling serious and organised crime".
"I am passionate about making our communities and societies safe, especially for women and girls, on the streets and at home, day and night," she said.
"People living and working across North Yorkshire want to feel safe and have full confidence in their police and fire services."
Ms Scott-Spivey, 23, is a student paramedic, the daughter of two police officers and lives in Thirsk.
She said she wanted to rebuild trust in the role of commissioner and would put "people above party politics".
Her campaign would target violence against women and girls, eliminate county line drug dealing and crack down on crimes against the elderly, she said.
"We have police officers, like my parents, who despite dwindling resources and reduced funding, dedicate their lives to making communities fairer and safer.
"We need a commissioner who will restore trust and give a voice to all of those people."
Former police officer Keith Tordoff has announced via Twitter that he is standing again on a platform of "keep politics out of policing".
On his website, Mr Tordoff said: "The resignation of the Conservative Commissioner was vitally important to help rebuild and restore confidence in the police, for all women, victims of crime, their families, friends and people of North Yorkshire. 
"The fallout from the circumstances leading to the Commissioner's resignation has undoubtedly undermined the great work that the Police, Fire and Rescue Services of North Yorkshire do every hour of every day."
Other political parties are yet to announce their candidates.
The election will take place after Mr Allott, who was elected in May, resigned from his role as PFCC on 14 October.
He quit after saying in an interview with the BBC that Sarah Everard should not have "submitted" to arrest by the police officer who murdered her.
He added that women needed to be more "streetwise" about powers of arrest.
He made the comments after it emerged serving Met Police officer Wayne Couzens had used his warrant card to falsely arrest Ms Everard for breaching coronavirus guidelines.
Mr Allott later apologised and retracted the remarks, but subsequently resigned.
A management team led by Jenni Newbury, who works for the PFCC, is expected to take temporary charge until the election.
Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
