A police officer who had sex with her colleague and then accused him of rape has been sacked for misconduct.
Both Hertfordshire Police officers had admitted to engaging in consensual sexual activity on police premises.
Later she said it was not consensual and it became a criminal investigation but no criminal action against the male officer was taken.
The panel said the male officer would have also been dismissed had he not already resigned.
Both officers, who police did not name, were found guilty of gross misconduct by breaching the standards of professional behaviour relating to integrity and discreditable conduct.
Hertfordshire Chief Constable Charlie Hall said: "I expect the highest standards of behaviour, honesty and conduct from all officers and staff in Hertfordshire Constabulary and there is no place for those who fail to meet them.
"The officers in question have been rightly dismissed and I hope this will reassure the public that we will act on all instances of misconduct by the very few who do not reflect the professionalism and integrity of the majority of our officers and staff."
A misconduct hearing in Welwyn Garden City was told the two officers engaged in sexual activity on three occasions in February 2022.
On one occasion the female officer was on duty.
In October 2022 the female officer indicated it was not consensual on her part and it was then investigated as a crime.
The male officer was interviewed on suspicion of rape, assault by penetration and sexual assault by touching in February 2023.
It was decided there would be no criminal action against him.
The male officer had already submitted his resignation in December 2022, after admitting gross misconduct.
The panel heard the officers had also been "sexting" on their mobile phones.
In one exchange the female officer sent a video of herself in her underwear turning around in front of a wall mirror.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
