A baker's video of her creating a lifesize cake of Deadpool and Wolverine has been shared on social media by Ryan Reynolds.The Canadian actor, who plays Deadpool, reposted Lara Mason's video of her making the sculpture to his Instagram stories, writing: "Wha?! How?!" Walsall baker Mrs Mason took more than 120 hours to create the cake, depicting the Marvel superhero characters recreating the famous Dirty Dancing lift.Mrs Mason's videos of her making the edible creation have been viewed by almost 6m people.
The cake is more than 3m (10ft) tall and is made from almost 300kg (661lbs) of ingredients.Mrs Mason, 38, shares videos of her creations on TikTok and Facebook, where she saw her viewers tagging Ryan Reynolds in the comments.She was stunned to see a comment on Monday saying the Deadpool actor himself had shared her video on Instagram."It was unbelievable," she told the BBC.  
Mrs Mason has made cakes for 13 years, having crafted similar sculptures of an array of different celebrities, fictional characters, and animals, from Harry Styles and Ed Sheeran to Queen Elizabeth II and Spiderman.Her latest sculpture is her tallest yet, beating her previous record of Taylor Swift lifting the Superbowl trophy, which she completed in February.The baker made the cake to coincide with the release of the superhero film Deadpool & Wolverine on Thursday."This is probably one of the most complicated cake designs I've ever made," she said."I really like sculpting people, so this was a really fun challenge for me."
The cakes are made from leftover sponges from customer orders, so no cake goes to waste.They are then covered in chocolate ganache and modelling chocolate, before an airbrush pen is used to sculpt the characters. Mrs Mason and her husband then had to winch the Deadpool cake on top of the Wolverine cake to recreate the Dirty Dancing pose.
"That was the super complicated part," she said."We had to lift the Deadpool sculpture with a winch. Thankfully, this part went really well and we lifted him almost up to the ceiling."Then we could slide the Wolverine cake in underneath and wiggle it on."After weeks and weeks of trying to figure out how on earth we'd be able to do this, weeks of putting the cake together, it happened."I've never been more proud of a cake."
Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
