A South Tyneside charity has seen a "steady stream" of young people being referred for help after becoming victims of child exploitation.South Shields-based Surt (Stopping Unsafe Relationships Together) said it had received more than 40 referrals a year in the last two years.“Public perception is that doesn’t happen on your doorstep. But it’s on the increase nationally," said co-founder Claire Amans, a former social worker.As part of a music in therapy project it has released its first song, featuring lyrics by a former victim.
Most of the cases Surt has dealt with have been sexual rather than criminal exploitation, and victims tend to be girls.Ms Amans, who set up the Franklin Street-based charity along with fellow former social worker Leeanne Hansen, said parents were often shocked child exploitation was happening locally."In the main, the people we were working with initially were 14 or 15, but we’re now seeing people as young as 12," she told BBC Radio Newcastle."We’re dealing with adult perpetrators, but we do know there's a rise in peer-on-peer exploitation as well.”
"Targeting" is generally the first stage of both sexual and criminal exploitation, the charity said.In cases of sexual exploitation, an offender will often try to gain a child's trust before encouraging them to share images or agree to sexual acts. In criminal exploitation, vulnerable children are targeted and treated to gifts and glimpses of a glamorous lifestyle.Ms Amans said more young people were being sent indecent images, often in group chats, which are then circulated."We’re also seeing young people being asked to move parcels and packages around, sometimes within South Tyneside, but often to other neighbouring authorities, using public transport or walking the streets very late at night," she added. She said parents were often oblivious to how children are finding themselves in such serious situations.“The very nature of being a child makes you vulnerable to exploitation," she added."Parents need to see how this looks in real life and it’s important that parents, schools and the community talk about these subjects and stay connected."
Once a young person is referred to Surt, they are encouraged to talk about their experiences and helped to understand what has happened to them.According to Ms Hansen, about 80% of young people they work with experience mental health issues, but she added mainstream services were not effective.To try and tackle this, the charity is working with music wellbeing practitioner Dean Stobbs as part of a music in therapy programme, and has secured funding for a further 18 months of work.He said he was shocked to realise how many young people were facing exploitation locally."I sit with the young person and hear their story, go away, create a song and play it to them which is always emotional. That song could change someone’s life,” he added.
It has just produced its first single, which was released on Monday, coinciding with the 10th anniversary of National Child Exploitation Awareness Day.I'm Fine, performed by vocalist Em, features lyrics written by a teenager who was referred for criminal exploitation, having been coerced into transporting drugs. They said taking part in the project offered a way to process their trauma.“I came to Surt because I was in a desperate time of need and had absolutely nowhere else to turn," they added. "They introduced me to the music project as a way of expressing my hurt, turning it into something positive and giving me something to be proud of.“I produced lyrics for a song. This for me was a way of working through what happened and helping others… to try to stop what happened to me from happening to them.”If you have been affected by any of the issues raised in this article, help and advice can be found on the BBC Action Line.
