A special needs college plagued by construction delays is now ready for pupils, West Sussex County Council said.Woodlands Meed College, in Burgess Hill, has made "significant steps forward" and was "now ready for pupils and staff to move in safely," according to the council. The multi-million pound facility was originally due to open last September. Marion Wilcock, chair of governors, said students would move into the new building at the start of the autumn term.
The new £21.6m facilities for students with special educational needs and disabilities (SEND) include a hydrotherapy pool, 12 new classrooms and two sports halls. Delays in its construction had been attributed to supply chain issues with labour and materials. Jacquie Russell, cabinet member on West Sussex County Council for children and learning, described the development as "a crucial moment" in a "very long journey". "We’ve faced many challenges and setbacks along the way," she said. "But it is important to now look ahead to the benefits this provision will bring to children with special educational needs and disabilities." 
Ms Wilcock said: "The school is relieved that at long last the end is in sight, and that significant improvement to the facilities and quality of workmanship has been achieved."She said this was just phase one of the project, and a programme for a second phase was being agreed, to allow continued use of the new building during further works.She said students would have access to facilities which meet government guidelines and to which they were entitled."There are, however, a number of issues which affect whether the students will be able to take up occupation, and we are relying on the promise of WSCC to ensure these are dealt with," she added.
During an inspection of the site last year, school governors had described being "gobsmacked" by the development's condition and described it like "a building site". WSCC, which had previously been critical of delays in the project's timeline, said it "appreciated the frustrations of parents, pupils and staff". The authority thanked everyone for their patience and said it was "ultimately proud" of what had been achieved.
Follow BBC Sussex on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk  or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250.
