A former sub-postmaster has said he hopes he can stay in his house now he has been told he is eligible for compensation.John Hanna's family ran a shop from their home in Studham, Bedfordshire, since 1837 but he closed it in 2001.The 69-year-old said the "hundreds of pounds" he paid to cover accounting deficits brought up by the faulty Horizon software were one of the causes for the closure.He said he now feels as if there has been a "weight off my shoulders" now he has received a letter confirming he is eligible for compensation.
A Post Office spokesperson told the BBC Mr Hanna's claim was "currently being assessed".
Mr Hanna explained: "It basically says yes you were a sub-postmaster through these periods, you didn't receive a criminal conviction, [but] you are entitled to compensation."That's not saying I'm going to get anything, it says 'we will now investigate further'."It's taken five months for them just to determine I tick the right boxes, it's not saying I am going to be paid any more- just that I am eligible."
The former postmaster became involved with the family shop in Studham in 1984.He said Horizon was just one contributing factor as to why he closed the shop - He had also suffered armed raids and low takings. "Horizon was the final straw that broke the camel's back," he added. Until the ITV drama about the scandal aired in January, the 69-year-old said he and his wife, Vanessa,  had been shunned by others in the village.Mr Hanna said: "My wife died 18 months ago, she didn't see this change around which I so regret, but I now feel back as part of the village."
After closing his shop in 2001 he worked as a postman in nearby Luton.He said the compensation would allow him to continue to live in the former Post Office shop that has been in his family since the early 1800s.The former postmaster explained: "It means I can stay in this house. I was born and bred in this house, this house has been in my family 200 years.""When I got that letter a few days ago it took an even bigger weight off my shoulders. I haven't had the ability to settle down and relax for a really long time, I realised [I can now] because I got that letter."
A Post Office spokesperson said: “We can confirm that this individual has submitted a claim under the Horizon Shortfall Scheme, and this is currently being assessed."The scheme remains open to late applications from current and former Postmasters who believe they experienced shortfalls related to previous versions of the Horizon system. "So far, over £100m has been paid to Horizon Shortfall Scheme claimants.”
Surviving The Post Office is on BBC One on Monday 22 July and on BBC iPlayer. The supporting podcast series The Post Office Scandal is also available on BBC Sounds
Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X.
