POCATELLO — A Bannock County court clerk was sentenced to serve one year of unsupervised probation for a charge of misdemeanor driving under the influence Tuesday.
The clerk’s attorney, Shawn Anderson of Pocatello, asserted that the state had taken particular interest in prosecuting the misdemeanor case because of his client’s position with the county.
Marlea Preston, 55, was charged with driving under the influence on Nov. 3, 2016. She was also charged with driving without privileges.
During the sentencing hearing Tuesday, Deputy Prosecutor Ashley Graham told the court that Preston had been charged with DUI in 2012 and that charge had been reduced to reckless driving.
Graham said that during her arrest in November, Preston failed field sobriety tests and refused a breathalyzer. Police secured a warrant to draw blood and Preston’s Blood Alcohol Concentration was 1.54, about double the legal limit.
The prosecutor said that Preston informed the arresting officer that she worked for the court in Bannock County and asked him to “work with her and drive her home.”
Graham asked the court to impose a sentence of one-year of supervised probation with drug and alcohol testing and a suspended 180-day jail sentence, as well as mandatory license suspension.
Anderson said that the 2012 charge had been amended, and Preston was currently charged with a first-offense DUI.

        
    
He said a BAC of 1.54 is in the medium range for a first offense DUI and he said that Preston has no significant prior record.
Anderson also noted that an alcohol evaluation in the case determined that alcohol and drug testing was not called for. But the evaluation did recommend that Preston participate in an eight-hour alcohol education class, which Anderson said his client was willing to do.
He told the court that Preston works two jobs and helps to support her son and granddaughter.
Anderson asked the court to impose a sentence of one year of unsupervised probation and he asked that any driver’s license suspension that was handed down be backdated to Dec. 3, 2016.
“I would ask the court to not go outside of the statewide standard for a first-offense DIU,” Anderson said.
Sixth District Magistrate David Kress said that he intended to be fair and unbiased in sentencing.
Kress sentenced Preston to serve one year of unsupervised probation, and he imposed 45 days of jail time, but gave Preston credit for two days served and suspended the remaining 43 days.
The judge also fined Preston $700 plus court costs and suspended $200 of that fine. Kress said a $500 bond posted by Preston would be applied to the fine.
Preston’s driver’s license was also suspended for 90 days, and Kress backdated the suspension to Dec. 3, 2016.
