A new MP became emotional as she reflected on her election to an area which she "owes so much".Labour’s Dr Allison Gardner said she was homesick for her constituency of Stoke-on-Trent South.On 25 July the first Prime Minister's Questions of the new Parliament took place with Sir Keir Starmer going head-to-head with the official opposition, led by Rishi Sunak."I am really homesick for my constituency. It's very exciting to be here and I want to work for the people, she said.
"But my home and heart is back in Stoke-on-Trent South", Dr Gardner said after PMQs.She said she had moved to the area in her mid-40s, when her "life fell apart" with "nothing aside from a little bit of savings to start again"."Now people have put their trust in me to be their MP, I owe them so much." she added.She said that it was worrying to see emails flooding her inbox when she was still recruiting staff."You know that there are individuals behind many of those that are asking for help," she said. "You live in fear of missing something really important."
Dr Gardner outlined her priorities, including potholes, provision for pupils with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities (SEND), road safety and the impact of sewage on rivers.During PMQs, Sir Keir was forced to defend the government's strategy on child poverty after he suspended seven of his MPs who rebelled over the two-child benefit cap.The policy, introduced by the Conservatives in 2017, prevents almost all parents from claiming Universal Credit or child tax credit for more than two children.
SNP Westminster leader Stephen Flynn questioned whether Labour's honeymoon period was over.Labour's Gareth Snell lost his Stoke-on-Trent Central seat in 2019 and regained it in 2024.He admitted the two-child benefit cap was a "monstrous policy" but said: "We've got to be able to pay for the commitments we make."The breakfast clubs we are going to roll out will help make sure that children don't go hungry."We are going to make sure the cost-of-living crisis is dealt with properly, we are going to bring down energy bills."
David Williams, MP for Stoke-on-Trent North, ousted Conservative Jonathan Gullis from his seat.Mr Williams said: "I’m getting some weird looks because I’m tipping over the plates here to look where they were made. I’m so proud when I see that backstamp of products from Stoke."
Follow BBC Stoke & Staffordshire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
