Countries around the 
world continue easing lockdown restrictions 
 and regaining a bit of what life was like before the coronavirus pandemic.
In Paris, sidewalk cafes are open for outdoor business — albeit with social distancing guidelines. Members of Britain’s Parliament have been called back to the office, though a few have reservations about the return. And in Portugal, there’s hope the country’s vital tourism sector can rebound with some flights resuming to its popular Algarve region.
In Japan, however, the Tokyo governor issued an alert as new cases rose again.
Here are some of AP’s top stories Tuesday on the world’s coronavirus pandemic. Follow 
APNews.com/VirusOutbreak
 for updates through the day and 
APNews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak
 for stories explaining some of its complexities.
— While the World Health Organization publicly praised China in January for its speedy response to the then-new coronavirus, the 
U.N. health agency was frustrated
 behind the scenes by China’s delays in sharing information needed to fight the spread of the virus, The Associated Press has found.
— Some British lawmakers were not pleased about going back to the office as the country 
eased restrictions from the virus 
 outbreak. Some in Parliament, who have largely been working from home, say the government’s decision to scrap a remote-voting system used during the pandemic will turn those who must stay home because of age, illness or family issues into second-class lawmakers.
— While companies working on a COVID-19 vaccine line up tens of thousands of people for studies this summer, 
 scientists are testing ferrets, monkeys and other animals
 in search of answers leading to a successful vaccine.

        
    
— 
Some in Russia are angry
 about a virus contact tracing app required for those in quarantine, while France goes online with its version to try to prevent future outbreaks. In Moscow, some say the app was glitchy and led to repeated fines when people could not comply with tracking requirements. 
Civil liberties groups in France
 worry that tracing apps open the way for government surveillance.
— Japan’s capital city issued a coronavirus alert on Tuesday amid fears of a resurgence of the virus only a week after a 
state of emergency
 was lifted. Tokyo Gov. Yuriko Koike issued the alert after 34 new cases were reported Tuesday in the city, where infections had slowed to a few per day in late May.
WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW:
For most people, the coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough that clear up in two to three weeks. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia and death. The vast majority of people recover.
Here are the 
symptoms of the virus compared with the common flu.
One of the best ways to prevent spread of the virus is washing your hands with soap and water. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends first washing with warm or cold water and then lathering soap for 20 seconds to get it on the backs of hands, between fingers and under fingernails before rinsing off.
You should wash your phone, too. 
Here’s how.
TRACKING THE VIRUS: 
Drill down and zoom in at the individual county level
, and you can access numbers that will show you the situation where you are, and where loved ones or people you’re worried about live.
ONE NUMBER:
— 8: Eight states 
hold presidential primaries today,
 with those looking to turn out to vote being asked to nagivate curfews and health concerns. Iowa, which held its presidential caucus this past February, will have several down-ticket races in its primary.
— FUNNY PAPERS: Sunday’s comics will have 
 more than just laughs this week
. Artists from more than 70 comic strips and panels will have hidden six symbols such as a health care mask and an apple for teachers to honor those on the front lines of the coronavirus pandemic. The comics include Garry Trudeau’s “Doonesbury,” and Jim Keane’s “Family Circus.” 
— SIDEWALK LIFE: 
Sidewalk cafes are back
 in business in the City of Light. Paris has eased restrictions due to the outbreak, making it once again possible to sit outside and watch Parisian life go by. Patrons can’t yet go inside cafes and outdoor seating must follow social distancing guidelines. 
Follow AP coverage of the virus outbreak at 
https://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak
 and 
https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak
