The widow of a former miner who died from asbestos-related cancer is appealing to track down anyone who worked with him to help her with a legal claim.Keith Needham, from Doncaster, died in 2022 aged 83, five months after being diagnosed with mesothelioma.   Lynne Needham, 68, believes he was exposed to asbestos dust and fibres during his time at Rossington and Maltby collieries.Mrs Needham said: "If his old colleagues have any knowledge of asbestos in the mines or if they have any relatives that have suffered with the same illness it would really strengthen the case."
Mr Needham joined Rossington Colliery in 1954 at the age of 15 and worked there for 20 years, before going on to work at Maltby Colliery until 1983.At Maltby, he was as a diesel locomotive driver before becoming a coal washer. He then moved underground initially as a haulage hand, and then as a coal face worker.
About 5,000 people die each year from an asbestos-related illness, and half of those from mesothelioma.According to the Health & Safety Executive (HSE), mesothelioma is a form of cancer that takes many years to develop following the inhalation of asbestos fibres, but is usually rapidly fatal.  Many deaths attributed to past occupational exposure are because of the widespread industrial use of asbestos between 1950 and 1980.There were 2,268 mesothelioma deaths in the UK in 2021. The majority of those who died were men over 75 years old.
Mrs Needham said she was pursuing a claim against the National Coal Board - now known as the Department for Business and Trade (DBT) - through solicitor Louisa Saville at Leigh Day. The DBT said it was unable to comment, but has previously assessed claims on a case-by-case basis.Mr Needham was also known by several different nicknames, including Schulz, Red Setter and Red. Ms Saville said: "We’re appealing for anyone who knew Keith at Rossington, but particularly at Maltby, who may be able to provide more information about the conditions and how Keith was exposed to asbestos."Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly known as Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
