A shortage of ADHD medicine was having a "devastating" impact on families in South Yorkshire, an MP said. 
Louise Haigh, Labour MP for Sheffield Heeley, said hundreds of people in Sheffield alone have been struggling for months due to the national issue.
She described the problem as a "fiasco" which needed addressing.
The Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said it was working to resolve the issue, but added supply of some ADHD medications had improved.
Jayne Spenceley, from Sheffield, said she had resorted to driving around the region every few weeks to find medication for her son.
"We've been having a lot of problems for months," she said.
"I am ringing up so many chemists, once I rang 35 in one day to find some medication."
She added: "It's really anxiety-provoking for him and stressful for me, it's taking up so much of my time that it's affecting my work as well."
Henry Shelford, founder of the ADHD UK charity, called it a "really difficult condition a lot of people don't understand". 
"The medication helps you focus your mind rather than cascading in busy noise, zooming in on hyper-focus," he said.
Mr Shelford, who has ADHD, said the medication was a "helping hand" rather than a cure.
He urged people to talk to their schools or workplaces about any supply issues they were having with ADHD medication.
Pharmacists have been reporting supply problems since September, with the government pointing to manufacturing issues and increased demand as the cause. 
Ms Haigh said she had been told the shortage could continue until April. 
"This is having a devastating effect on those living with ADHD and their families," she said.
"I have written to the secretary of state to see what steps the government is taking to address this fiasco, ensure plans are put in place for those who are forced to go without medication and ensure this does not happen again."
The National Pharmacy Association said people should request repeat medicines from the GP well in advance of them running low while the problem persisted. 
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a behavioural condition, often identified in childhood, typically under 12 years, but can also be diagnosed in adults.
Symptoms include restlessness, difficulty concentrating, and impulsiveness, which may evolve with age.
Treatment for ADHD varies. Children may receive educational support and possibly medication, while adults often start with medication and may benefit from cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT).
Effective management of ADHD involves coping with challenges in organisation, time management, stress, and social interactions.
A DHSC spokesperson said: "We understand how frustrating and distressing medicine supply issues can be and have acted swiftly since we were first alerted to disruptions. 
"As a result the supply of some ADHD medicines has improved over recent months."
They added: "We recognise that some issues remain and have been in close contact with the industry, the NHS and others operating across the supply chain to help resolve issues with ADHD medications as quickly as possible."
Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
