Thousands of music fans will travel to Suffolk next week for Latitude Festival.The event starts on Thursday at Henham Park, near Southwold, and runs until Sunday.The 2024 line-up has some big names including Kasabian, London Grammar, Duran Duran, Keane, Rick Astley and many more. Find out how to get to and from the festival below.
Henham Park is located between the A12 and the A145 and there are not any planned road closures during the festival.However, anyone travelling by road should keep an eye on travel conditions in case of any disruption.Roads around the area may be congested due to the festival and road users are urged to follow temporary festival signage to the park rather than relying on a satnav.
According to the festival organisers, drivers will not be allowed to stop at the campsite and there is a separate area for those wishing to park for the day or weekend. Car users will be able to park in adjacent or nearby fields to the campsites. While parking is included in the price of tickets, visitors are not permitted to sleep, camp or light fires in the car parks.Any illegally parked cars will be towed away.
A specific zone for those wanting to pick up and drop off has been allocated.This point can be found at the yellow gate and directions to this area will be signposted clearly. 
Aside from travelling by car, there are several other ways to reach Henham Park. The nearest train station is Halesworth, however, it is important to note there is no direct service to this station from London and you will have to change at Ipswich.On Friday and Saturday evening, the last train departing Halesworth is at 21:40 BST with no services after this. On Sunday, the last train is 20:36.Anyone wishing to travel after these times should make alternative arrangements.There will also be a shuttle bus service from Halesworth, Southwold and Kessingland to the festival.Tickets are available to be purchased through the BorderBus app.Bike racks will also be available for cyclists and taxis services will be able to reach the site via the yellow gate. There is no pedestrian access to the festival site and the organisers have warned the surrounding roads are not suitable for pedestrians. 
The campervan and caravan fields (general and family) will be open from 14:00 on Wednesday.The campsites (general and family) will be opened from 10:00 on Thursday. However the arena will not open until 17:00 on Thursday and will close again at 03:00 the following morning. From Friday to Sunday the arena will open from 10:00 to 03:00.
Follow Suffolk news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
