An up-and-coming performer about to make her West End debut says she has not yet "fully processed" the opportunity.Hattie Briggs, 21, from Farcet in Cambridgeshire is due to graduate in drama and theatre studies at Kingston University next month and has ambitions of working in theatre, television and film. She will perform in a one-off concert held at The Other Palace in London on 28 July.She said: "I was a really, really shy and timid little girl. I had this one teacher at my primary school and he was absolutely the best person ever and he introduced me to the whirlwind of performance."
The 21-year-old was scouted by producer Ben Kelleher as part of the Tread Talent initiative. She was encouraged by one of her lecturers to audition for the opportunity where Mr Kelleher invited her to perform as part of an event called Tread the Boards. 
The concert is part of Mr Kelleher's fundraising efforts for the Ben Kelleher’s Deliriously Mad Challenge, raising money for Cancer Research. Sharing a post on Instagram, Mr Kelleher said: "This time, after a rigorous audition process where she blew away the judges, Hattie is the Kingston University pick." Ms Briggs, who looks up to actors including Carrie Hope Fletcher, Florence Pugh and Barbie's Margot Robbie, will perform a comedic cabaret burlesque act she developed while at university. She said: "I'm glad that if I had to make my debut anywhere, its The Other Palace. "Being surrounded by this industry, I always admired The Other Palace... just to be there and have that support and that place behind you, is really lovely."The theatre has supported new shows including Heathers, Babies and recently announced show, The Lightning Thief: A Percy Jackson musical. "It's a really hard industry to get into, and for them to put this on and essentially give a leg up to up-and-coming artists, it's something that should be celebrated. "To have this section in it where they take young raw talent, I think it deserves to be celebrated and absolutely praised," she said.
Follow Cambridgeshire news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
