VANCOUVER, British Columbia (AP) — J.T. Miller scored on a penalty shot and finished with two goals and two assists as the Vancouver Canucks beat Calgary 7-1 Thursday night, snapping the Flames’ 10-game winning streak.
“We just set a standard for ourselves for the rest of the year. And that’s not by winning by six goals, but it’s playing the right way, being sharp on the special teams, being ready to start the game,” Miller said after the fourth four-point performance of his career.
“We have a standard. We need to play to that from here on out. We shouldn’t be satisfied with anything other than that, really.”
Elias Pettersson had two goals and an assist, Bo Horvat scored twice and Conor Garland added a goal for Vancouver. Quinn Hughes and Brock Boeser, who was playing in his 300th career game, each had two assists. Thatcher Demko made 29 saves for Vancouver.
Canucks coach Bruce Boudreau didn’t see the lopsided result coming.
“We’ll take it,” he said. “It certainly doesn’t happen often when you’re playing such a good hockey team. but everything seemed to be going right for us.”
Andrew Mangiapane scored for the Flames, who had outscored their opponents 43-14 during their win streak. Jacob Markstrom made 18 saves against his former team before being replaced in the third period due to an equipment issue. Dan Vladar stopped 13 of 16 shots in relief.
“You throw that out,” Flames center Blake Coleman said. “You’re not gonna win 82 games in a season, as much as you’d like to. Good teams get beat and good teams have had bad nights, but to be a good team you got to respond and be able to learn from these games versus get stuck in a rut.

        
    
“We had won 10 in a row for a reason. We’re a really good hockey team and this is part of the growth of our group is being able to respond after what I view as an embarrassing loss and put together good game at home.”
Mangiapane ruined Demko’s shutout with just over two minutes left, picking off an errant pass in the neutral zone and putting a wraparound shot into the net or his 26th goal of the season.
NOTES: Calgary’s Erik Gudbranson sent Jason Dickinson hard into the boards midway through the second period and the Vancouver forward crumpled to the ice with an apparent leg injury. He left the ice on his own and did not return. ... Miller extended his point streak to five games. He has four goals and six assists during the stretch. … The Canucks marked Black History Month with a special warm-up jersey on Thursday and a ceremonial puck drop by Claude Vilgrain, the first Black player in franchise’s history.
Flames: Host Minnesota on Saturday night.
Canucks: At New York Rangers on Sunday night.
More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
