House Speaker Paul Ryan’s sudden decision to leave Congress after this term is a fitting exclamation point on this era of topsy-turvy politics. Ryan entered Congress in 1998 as a deficit hawk, railed against deficits during the Obama administration as chairman of the House Budget Committee and then, as speaker, shepherded tax policy that will increase the deficit by more than $1 trillion over 10 years even if all of its rosy economic projections prove accurate. Like other Republican congressional leaders, Ryan has tolerated the egregious conduct of President Trump as the cost of the president’s signature on ideologically driven policy goals such as the tax policy, diminished environmental regulation, vastly increased defense spending and so on. Now Ryan’s decision comes at the height of the turbulence, and the attendant danger, that has marked Trump’s tenure. After federal agents, acting Monday with a court-issued warrant based on probable cause, raided the office and hotel room of Trump lawyer Michael Cohen, Trump claimed that the action constituted “an attack on our country.” Louis XIV was accurate in 1655 when he is said to have reminded a legislator that “l’état, c’est moi,” “I am the state.” Trump is not and part of Ryan’s responsibility to the country is to ensure that the United States continues to function as a country of laws rather than of men. Trump has attempted twice to fire Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who spearheads the crucial investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election and already has produced substantial results. Bipartisan bills to protect Mueller from Trump’s ax have failed in Congress for lack of leadership support. As Ryan prepares to leave, he can afford to do so at arm’s length from Trump. He should move bills that preclude Trump from sacking the special counsel and call upon his Senate counterpart, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell — who has said that Mueller should be allowed to finish his investigation — to make sure that is what happens.
