Three MPs have called for an inquiry into practices at Britannia Hotels, the owner of Pontins.
Conservatives James Davies, Sally-Ann Hart and Damien Moore each represent constituencies where Pontins sites have shut suddenly in the last four months.
They cite concerns over a lack of investment, neglect of sites and the poor treatment of Pontins staff. 
The MPs reference a BBC special report into Wendy Jones, who died months after a ceiling collapsed on her at Pontins.
In a letter to Dame Caroline Dinenage, chair of the Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee, they say: "While each of the three sites have great potential, in recent years, they have negatively impacted the communities in which they are based. The same can be said of the company's hotel stock across the country." 
Calling for the committee to undertake a short inquiry, the MPs stated a hope that "this will encourage the company to dispose of their leased sites so that they can receive much needed investment and redevelopment from others".
Mrs Jones, 68, was at the Fun Factory entertainment centre at the Brean Sands holiday park in Somerset in 2019, when an air conditioning duct and part of the ceiling fell on families below. 
She spent the last six months of her life in hospital before she died on 4 August 2019. Avon and Somerset Police said a post-mortem examination found a "clear link" between the injuries she had sustained in the accident and her subsequent death.
Her son told the BBC he wants answers and says Pontins should be "held to account".
Pontins' owners, a Britannia Hotels subsidiary, said the collapse was "an unfortunate accident that could not reasonably have been predicted".
The BBC separately spoke to nine former and current Pontins and Britannia staff about neglect, claiming head office dismissed many of their worries about the way former sites were maintained.
The Department for Culture Media and Sport has described the BBC's investigation as "deeply concerning".
The holiday parks in Prestatyn, North Wales and Camber Sands, East Sussex, closed in November last year, leaving staff shocked in the run-up to Christmas and forcing businesses to cancel plans. 
Dr Davies, MP for Vale of Clwyd in North Wales, told the BBC he has made several attempts to communicate and meet with Britannia Hotels, but "to no avail". 
He said he has written to a dozen successful holiday park operators regarding the Prestatyn site since the closure, and has received "serious expressions of interest". 
Pontins: Rundown & Ruined?
The sudden closure of three Pontins sites was a huge shock to holidaymakers, staff, and coastal communities, but a BBC investigation has found that the sites were in a state of serious disrepair.
Watch now on BBC iPlayer (UK Only)
The news was followed by a similarly sudden closure of the park in Southport, Merseyside. 
Mr Moore, who represents the constituency, said: "I am calling for a formal inquiry into Britannia's practices, mandating the permanent disposal of leased sites for public tender to facilitate value-adding investment to Ainsdale." 
The BBC understands the Culture, Media and Sport Committee chair has written to Britannia Hotels - owners of Pontins since 2011 - regarding the closures and future plans for the sites. 
A spokesperson for the committee confirmed they had received the MPs' letter and it would be discussed in their next meeting on 26 March. 
In response to the BBC special report, Pontins said in a statement: "We are and remain committed towards ensuring the public have a safe and enjoyable visit to all the parks and hotels we own, and continuously improving our health and safety performance." 
The BBC has contacted Britannia Hotels for comment. 
