The deputy first minister is to undergo a Covid-19 test after a family member tested positive for the virus. 
It is understood Michelle O'Neill has been self-isolating at her home in Mid-Ulster since she learned her relative was infected with coronavirus. 
In a statement, Sinn Féin confirmed she was being tested. 
"Michelle will continue to follow the public health advice and carry out her duties in government remotely," it said.
This is the second time in 10 days the deputy first minister will undergo a test for Covid 19.  She was tested last week after developing what turned out to be a head cold. 
The development would only have potential self-isolating consequences for Ms O'Neill's Stormont colleagues if the Sinn Féin vice president tests positive for the virus.
It comes as the Stormont Executive continues to grapple with high infection rates across Northern Ireland, with the Derry and Strabane Council districts one of the worst hit areas in the UK and Ireland.
On Thursday, Ms O'Neill took part in an executive meeting with First Minister Arlene Foster. 
The meeting saw ministers sign off on proposals brought by Justice Minister Naomi Long, so people caught breaching coronavirus regulations will now face a minimum fine of £200.
On Thursday night, Mrs Long told the BBC NI's The View programme that she had been infected with the virus earlier this year and felt unwell for some time.
The Alliance leader missed her party's conference, with a CT scan revealing she had a partially collapsed lung.
Mrs Long said she had no persistent cough, but had a high temperature, chest pain and difficulty breathing.
In April, Sinn Féin leader Mary Lou McDonald said she would never take her health for granted again after she tested positive for coronavirus earlier that month.
In a statement about First Minister Arlene Foster, a DUP spokesperson said: "Mrs Foster observes social distancing and uses online meetings as much as possible to limit spread. She has also the stopCovidNI app and has not received an alert."
Two registered deaths linked to Covid-19 were recorded in Northern Ireland from 26 September to 2 October, according to the latest official figures.
Data from the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency (Nisra) states that the number of coronavirus-related deaths until 2 October is 902. 
People in Northern Ireland caught breaching coronavirus regulations will now face a minimum fine of £200 under plans agreed by the executive on Thursday.
The use of mandatory face coverings in Northern Ireland is also to be extended.
Face coverings are already compulsory on public transport and for customers in shops, but will now become mandatory in other setting such as taxis and retail shops.
In other coronavirus-related developments:
