Heavy rain during a thunderstorm led to flash flooding on Bank Holiday Monday in Leeds, as drivers abandoned cars and several roads were closed. 
A section of Low Lane in Horsforth between King George Road and St James Drive has shut "until further notice" due to a sink hole, the council said.
Water was seen pouring onto the tracks at Horsforth railway station, with a wall on the platform left damaged. 
Flood warnings which were put in place have since been lifted. 
Leeds City Council said some drivers abandoned their cars on the A6120 ring road, with the weather closing the route between Weetwood Lane and King Lane. 
The Environment Agency had issued flood alerts for several areas including Meanwood Beck, Wortley Beck and Oil Mill Beck at Horsforth Woodside. 
It said surface water following the thunderstorm was likely to affect low spots on roads.
The local authority said a footpath had to close near Horsforth train station and the Fox and Hound pub due to weather damage. 
A Leeds City Council spokesperson said: "During thunderstorms on Monday afternoon, parts of Leeds experienced close to a month's worth of rain in under three hours, and in some places over an even shorter period of time. 
"Flash flooding has occurred across the city, with areas in the north and north-west particularly affected. There are a number of road closures as a result of the flooding, whilst the damage caused is assessed and repaired, with some bus routes affected. Please check with your service operator before travelling."
The council said it was working with the Environment Agency, Yorkshire Water and others to investigate flooding incidents as they are reported.
Stuart Andrew, Conservative MP for Pudsey, Horsforth and Aireborough, said on X: "Just to ensure constituents are aware I have raised the flash flooding we are seeing in Horsforth with Leeds City Council to ensure everything is being done to prepare for the aftermath. 
"If you need any assistance please let me know, but please stay safe in this weather."
Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
