The Mayor of London has pledged his support to send 4x4s and other vehicles to Ukraine that would otherwise be scrapped under the Ulez scheme.
Sadiq Khan asked Transport Secretary Mark Harper to enable Londoners to donate suitable vehicles to Ukraine through scrappage schemes.
The mayor previously said he could not change the scheme to allow export for legal reasons. 
Mr Harper said he would support finding options to "resolve this matter".
Under the Ulez scrappage scheme, which came into force in August, Londoners with vehicles that fall foul of emission standards can claim up to £2,000 when their non-compliant vehicles are taken to be destroyed.
The letter, jointly sent to Mr Harper by the mayor and former defence secretary Ben Wallace, urged him to give motorists "money for taking polluting vehicles off our cities" streets while providing vital support towards the people of Ukraine.
"We understand there is a particular requirement for 4x4 vehicles as well as emergency service vehicles," it continued.
Mr Khan and Mr Wallace said they had reached their conclusion following "conversations with the mayor's office in Kyiv and other partners".
The Telegraph previously reported Kyiv's mayor, Vitali Klitschko, had written to his London counterpart to suggest the idea as part of the scrappage scheme.
"This could be most quickly done by altering the national regulations for the certificate of destruction, which is required as proof that a vehicle has been permanently scrapped, to instead enable the export of suitable vehicles to Ukraine via a registered charity or national scheme," the letter from Mr Khan and Mr Wallace said.
"We recognise that any such change would need cross-departmental co-ordination within government, not least to ensure that any vehicles sent to Ukraine meet their needs."
In a letter responding to Mr Khan and Mr Wallace, the transport secretary said he was "surprised" it had taken so long for the mayor to request the move given the Ulez scheme had operated since August. 
He said the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities Michael Gove had written to Mr Khan "seeking clarity from you on precisely what legal barriers you believe you face".
Once identified, Mr Harper said his officials would support any available options to export the vehicles.
With additional reporting from PA.
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
