A nursing student has spoken of her disgust after finding a dead mouse in her bed.Chloe Adams, 24, endured a disturbing and sleepless ordeal on Tuesday night while watching films in her bed in her shared rented house in Cardiff. She has since moved into her housemate's room until the situation is resolved, and remains "really annoyed" at being in a house she described as "just not liveable”.Pinnacle letting agency said pest control had been instructed to attend.
"I got up to go to the bathroom and when I came back it was just lying there," Chloe said."I knew there were mice in the house because I’d seen droppings, but I hadn’t actually seen one until it was right there in my bed."Chloe moved into the house in Dogfield Street, Cathays, a month ago and said she immediately reported the mouse problem to Pinnacle, the property management company, after finding droppings during her first week.
Despite her complaints and evidence of mouse droppings, she said no action had been taken."It's been hell since we moved in," she said."We’ve been sending them emails about the mice and other problems since day one. When we brought it up face to face and showed them the video, they said they'd get on to it right away."Chloe decided to post the video on TikTok after she had finally "had enough" of the state of her house. Since then, it has had more than 37,000 views.Initially, Chloe thought she was seeing things, but she soon realised it was indeed a dead mouse in her bedsheets.
Screaming and panicking, she FaceTimed her boyfriend and called her housemate upstairs, who found her in tears. "It made my skin crawl knowing I had been sleeping with a mouse in my bed. I was up all night stressing. I actually can't stay in this room anymore.“Since then, I’ve been having dreams of mice. I didn’t think I had a fear of mice, but it really freaked me out."“I felt awful - it must have crawled in after I had checked the bed, and I must have rolled over and squished it. I feel terrible.”
After removing the mouse, Chloe immediately stripped her bed and took a shower.However, shortly after finally falling asleep, she woke up to find another mouse scurrying around her room, and screamed again.“My room is right above the kitchen, so they must be coming up that way. You can hear the pitter-patter of feet, but it doesn’t sound like just one or two; it sounds like 20,” she said.Letting agency Pinnacle's compliance and lettings manager, Charlie Redding, said: "We take complaints about live mice very seriously and we have instructed the council pest control to attend."We will ask the landlord to action any recommendations made by the council’s pest control team."
