A seven-year-old boy with a brain condition has climbed Yr Wyddfa, also known as Snowdon, for charity.James, from Uttoxeter, Staffordshire, was diagnosed with numerous cavernomas – a cluster of abnormal blood vessels - on the brain at 10 months old.The symptoms include seizures, balance issues and headaches and he has to have yearly MRI scans to monitor the condition.James said he wanted to give something back, after the charity Make-A-Wish granted him his wish to go to Lapland in Finland, last December.
The family set up a Just Giving fundraising page, which has so far collected about £1100 for the charity.James said: “Make-A-Wish gave me a lovely holiday so I thought I could give them some money back.”His mum Zoe said it was "such a good feeling at the top, the kids felt so proud of themselves and over the moon".
When James was diagnosed at Birmingham Children’s Hospital, Zoe left her job as an electrician to care for him full time.She said he initially had to undergo steroid injections to treat the cavernomas, of which there are now eight, but he no longer needs that treatment.An operation could be performed, but surgeons was decided it was too risky because the cavernomas are so deeply embedded in his brain.Despite the symptoms, Zoe says her son is still able to attend regular school and even take up mountain biking.
“When he has a headache, he’ll just say, ‘Oh my silly head is playing up again’. That’s how he handles it – he never gets himself down,” she said.“He manages it so well. He doesn’t let anything stop him and he never wants to upset anyone.”
She said James, who loves Christmas, was so pleased with his trip to Lapland that he immediately decided he wanted to raise money to help support other children.“I’m over the moon, but that’s just James all over. He’s such a kind boy,” she said.The idea of climbing Wales' tallest mountain came as a result of James’s love of nature, and the fact Sir David Attenborough is one of his idols.
James climbed the mountain with mum Zoe, dad Jake and five-year-old sister Ella.
Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
