Former Cleveland nightclub owner sentenced to 16 years in federal cocaine case
CLEVELAND, Ohio — A former Cleveland night club owner who trafficked large amounts of cocaine was sentenced Tuesday to 16 years in federal prison.
Gilbert Mendez, who owned the now-shuttered Club Sin on West 6th Street, pleaded guilty in February to conspiracy and four counts of distribution of cocaine. At the time, Mendez was awaiting trial on his indictment, which was filed in 2015.
Mendez, 40, said Tuesday that he entered the plea agreement, which required the 16-year sentence, at the last minute because his trial was approaching and he was facing life if convicted by a jury. U.S. District Judge Solomon Oliver Jr. said Mendez had months to decide whether to plead guilty, which Mendez did not dispute.
Tuesday’s sentencing ends the third federal drug case for Mendez.
The latest investigation began when a person cooperating with Cleveland police told detectives in August 2011 that Mendez and Alexander Ferbes sold cocaine at Club Sin, court papers said. From there, police worked with confidential informants and wiretapped Mendez’s phone, officials said.
Ferbes and Mendez got their drugs from suppliers in Chicago and Florida, authorities said, and Mendez and others turned the powder cocaine into crack rocks. Mendez and others stored the cocaine at houses on West 54th Street and Finn Avenue.

        
    
Investigators used confidential information to buy drugs from Mendez, according to the indictment. The informants first met with him in the VIP room of his nightclub to start their business relationship. Many of the deals happened at Mr. Chassis Auto Body shop on West 63rd Street, while others took place at various West Side locations, prosecutors said.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Margaret Sweeney said Tuesday that Mendez was at the top of the conspiracy that he was the one who got the cocaine from out-of-state suppliers.
Mendez, who represented himself with attorney Anthony Vegh next to him as standby counsel, said he felt like an idiot. He said that his decisions affect his family that will now live without him as he serves his time in prison.
But he accused federal agents of committing illegal acts during the investigation and claimed that the government of Mexico had him kidnapped. He did not elaborate on those accusations in open court, but said he had other things to tell the judge. That led to a lengthy sidebar with him, the judge and prosecutors.
Even though he agreed to seek the sentence he received, he noted after Oliver officially handed it down that “people kill people and get less time than that.”
Mendez was one of seven people charged in the cocaine trafficking. Of those, six, including Mendez, pleaded guilty to federal charges and were sent to prison.
Israel Cortes, the owner of Mr. Chassis Auto Body shop, was acquitted at a 2015 trial.
Among those caught on the wiretap of Mendez’s phone was Cleveland police Sgt. Robert Strollo, and one conversation contained what federal investigators described as “questionable content,” according to a police internal affairs report filed in a lawsuit.
Strollo had a “personal relationship” with Mendez and had frequently spoke with Mendez by phone and through texts, the report says. He was never charged in relation to Mendez’s case but now faces a charge of soliciting a prostitute. He remains on the police force.
If you would like to comment on this story, please visit Tuesday’s crime and courts comments section.
