Welcome to this week’s edition of Friday Playlist where members of the Times-Tribune staff submit their music picks based on a theme. This Week’s theme is Songs For a Future Generation…. A song you hope your kids, grandkids, etc. will hear. Enjoy: Wilco - One Hundred Years from Now Jim Haggerty This is a rollicking version of a simple song Gram Parsons wrote during his brief period with the Byrds. It looks to the future, some constants in life and takes a philosophical glance at human nature. Chuck Berry - Johnny B. Goode Ed Pikulski It’s got everything the kids need. It represents a close starting point for rock & roll so it can inspire. It’s also rowdy, fun, and you can dance to it. Tough category but this song needs to make the list. Elvis Presley - Blue Moon Ted Baird To avoid over thinking this, I’m going to the first thing I came up with... Simple, hauntingly beautiful, personal yet universal. I’m sure I would pick something different any time this was asked. Nat King Cole - The Christmas Song Caitlin Heaney West Yes, I know it’s August. But this is my favorite version of this song, and one every person needs to hear. Johnny Cash - Big River Chad Sebring Johnyy Cash is absolutely an artist I want to pass along to my daughter and I love the imagery of this one. The Village People - YMCA Pat McKenna A solemn warning to future generations of how society can go off the rails, and to never let something like this happen again. ... Beyoncé - Love on Top Gia Mazur There’s so many great ones by her, but we don’t spend enough time talking about the SIX key changes Mrs. Carter-Knowles runs through during this song. If we all cease to exist tomorrow, I want this song to live on forever (along with the “Homecoming” documentary) so everyone can understand the power of Beyoncé. To those who say she’s not talented: unless you, too, can sing this song flawlessly, complete with each vocal run, FIGHT ME. YOU CAN’T. Carly Rae Jepsen - Call Me Maybe Gia Mazur Even if you don’t know this song, you know this song. It was everywhere in 2012 and likely got stuck in your head. It defined the early 2010s and, thanks to evolution, a generation. See, in cave men times, young adults’ brains needed to become sponges for social information to help them get ahead and ultimately survive, according to Frank McAndrew, an evolutionary psychologist in a story for QUARTZ. Music has a way of working itself deep into our memories. When a hit song (and an earworm) comes out during our young adult lives, we hold on to the memories and the feelings the song evokes. When I hear this song, I remember having the time of my life, closing down bars (either Metro or Dallas Tap and Grille) with my best friends in college. Most millennials feel the same and this song, no matter how silly, will always hold a special place in our hearts. Not to mention, THIS SONG JUST SLAPS. Miles Davis - So What John Cole Aug. 17 marked the 60th anniversary of Miles’ seminal “Kind of Blue.” This cut is timeless, a fine-cut sonic diamond representing the best in American music. Arcade Fire - Wake Up Joe Healey I’d want your kid to listen to this. And then your kid’s kid. 
