A new exhibition exploring the history of coal mining at a South Yorkshire stately home has opened in Rotherham.Wentworth’s Coal Story, at Wentworth Woodhouse, will explore the estate's 200-year connection to the industry and how coal fuelled its fortunes.Among the exhibits are a pair of rabbit skin gloves hand-made by a miner and a bravery medal given to a teenage collier who saved his pit pony in a roof collapse.The exhibits, collected by research volunteers from Wentworth Woodhouse Preservation Trust, include several items loaned to the exhibition after a public appeal.
The exhibition features the stories of the men who worked underground on the estate, and their relationships with their aristocratic employers.It tells of pit disasters, mining methods and safety developments, and the impact of mining on the landscape.
The story of John Willie Bell, who ran back into a pit to find his pony during a roof fall, features alongside his medal.Researchers said he ran back into the Elsecar pit as others fought their way out of the mine to avoid tumbling rock, pit props and choking dust.He is said to have told his rescuers: "I knew you would dig for a man, but not for a pony."Mr Bell's grandchildren, Steve Hardy and Val Noble, said he told family members he stayed with the pony and wrapped his jacket around her head to protect her.
Joan Jones, said the research team were "totally absorbed" in the house’s mining history for months. What stood out though, she said, was that the First Marquess of Rockingham only had one mine when construction started in 1724.“The mine opened in 1723 and employed just a handful of men," Ms Jones said."It certainly didn’t fund [his] architectural ambitions. Income from his vast estates paid for that."
Victoria Ryves, head of culture and engagement at Wentworth, said "scores of pits" were developed by the home's previous owners, the Rockinghams andthe Fitzwilliams, and brought them "vast wealth" which provided for the colliers' families.She said the Trust had been "over the moon" with the public response to its appeal for stories and memorabilia. 
"We were determined to include the memories of people from these mining communities," she said. "We wanted to know how they lived and worked, about their hobbies and social lives."People told us fascinating things and loaned us possessions handed down through generations."They tell another side of the story. It is really important social history.”The exhibition runs until 6 October.Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
