Cancers diagnosed in people aged between 18 and 49 in Northern Ireland have risen by 20% in the past 25 years, according to new research.
Queen's University Belfast and the NI Cancer Registry compared 2019 statistics with 1993 figures, when registry records began.  
Figures show that, by 2019, 1,076 people aged 18-49 were diagnosed with some form of cancer. 
Prof Helen Coleman, who was involved in the research, said it was worrying.
"What's also worrying is that the types of cancers are changing," she told BBC News NI. 
"Traditionally among men it would have been testicular cancer and brain tumours. This research shows a rise in colorectal cancer instead."
The research looked at early onset cancers, which means cancers diagnosed in adults under the age of 50. 
It found that cancers commonly seen in older people - such a bowel, breast, stomach and pancreatic cancers - are now being diagnosed in younger adults.
Lisa Smyth was 39 when she was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2017.
She she was pregnant with her son at the time.
Lisa initially dismissed her symptoms as hormonal changes but, once they worsened, friends and family encouraged her to check for cancer. 
"I thought 'how could it be cancer?' I'm young, I've always been fit and healthy … but it's not an old woman's disease anymore,"she says. 
Lisa says when she goes for check-ups, she's sometimes one of the oldest women in the waiting room. 
"The age of girls being diagnosed now is a lot younger and I have a lot of friends in the same situation," she says.
"I think the narrative needs to change, so that people are aware that you can get cancer when you're younger."
Aisling Gallagher,  a 31-year-old retail manager and online influencer from Crumlin, County Antrim was diagnosed with stage two colorectal cancer in September 2020.
She underwent radiotherapy, surgery and chemotherapy and, although she is now through her treatment, is still living with the after-effects.
"Obviously once you've had it you probably do have that, 'God it's going to return somewhere'," she told BBC Radio Ulster's Evening Extra programme.
"For me, as well, after I had my surgery they found it in my lymph nodes and that's why I had to have the chemotherapy. 
"I think that as well was always a wee bit of a surprise. I kind of thought once the tumour was taken away that would have been it," she said. 
"So it's definitely something that's still there, but it's not something that stops me getting on. 
"I need to just continue on with my life and I am still young, I still have a lot of life to live." 
Prof Coleman said researchers need to better understand what is causing cancers in young adults. 
"The rise has also been seen in other western countries such as across the UK, America and Australia, which suggests it is something to do with changes in our environment and lifestyle." 
She said there are various theories associated with the increase, including people eating more processed foods and taking antibiotics from an earlier age, but nothing definitive. 
Risk factors such as smoking, alcohol and obesity should not be ignored. 
"We would appeal to men and women in the age group to be aware of any changes in their body that are unusual for them and to contact their GP if they have concerns," she said. 
Prof Coleman stressed that the message needs to get out there that younger people can get cancer too. 
"Don't just wait because you consider yourself to be too young to get cancer. Don't ignore any symptoms which are unusual to you. Early diagnosis is key."
The research highlights that within the 18-49 age group there was a higher incidence of diagnosis among women - largely driven by breast cancer cases.
From 1993-2019 there was a 27% increase in the incidence rate of cancers in women compared to a 9% increase in men.
The most common cancers in men aged between 40 to 49 were colorectal, melanoma, lung and head cancers.  
In women aged 40 to 49 the most common malignancies were breast, melanoma, and colorectal cancers. 
According to Prof Coleman, patients with early onset cancers face "unique" challenges across the entire cancer process from investigation and diagnosis through treatment to survivorship or end-of-life care. 
Northern Ireland's cancer strategy has yet to be fully implemented. 
Prof Coleman said all those who took part in the review believes it highlights relevant areas for discussion about early onset cancers, including lowering the age of screening. 
"Prevention and early detection are key to reducing disease burden and improving cancer outcomes," she added.
"As healthcare professionals and scientific researchers, we should be aiming to create treatment pathways for early onset cancers where at each stage patients and their families are given autonomy and support relevant to their individual circumstances, where their concerns are addressed, and treatment is evidence-based and innovative."
Ending their research on a positive note, those involved said no one should underestimate the power of hope - indeed "rebellious hope", in the words of the late Dame Deborah James who died from bowel cancer.
It added there must be hope for young cancer patients and their families, stating: "We have the opportunity at each stage of the patient journey to contribute to more effective treatments, a better quality of life, living beyond cancer or meaningful palliative care."
