A mother who was under the influence of drugs when she crashed her car in El Cajon last year, fatally injuring her 3-year-old daughter, was sentenced Friday to 13 years and four months in prison.
Brandy Lee Teague, 32, was charged in the death of Carlee Ramirez, one of Teague’s three children. The others — two boys, ages 10 and 21 months — were also in the car at the time of the accident. They were injured but survived. The youngest child still has trouble walking, a prosecutor said.
In March, a jury found Teague guilty of vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated, three counts of child endangerment, DUI and possession of methamphetamine.
At the sentencing hearing, El Cajon Superior Court Judge Evan Kirvin denied a defense lawyer’s request that Teague be placed on probation, but the judge said he did take the defendant’s lack of a previous criminal history into account when he determined her punishment.
The judge said a prison term was appropriate, given the likelihood that she would be a danger to others — including her own children — if she were to remain free. The children, he noted, were defenseless and essentially held “captive” in the vehicle with their mother behind the wheel.
It was a point the prosecutor had stressed moments earlier.
“These three children were trapped in that car with the one person who should have protected them,” said Deputy District Attorney Aimee McLeod.

        
    
She noted that Teague had repeatedly ignored the warnings of her 10-year-old son, who begged his mother to pull over.
“Not only did she ignore it, she put the burden on him by saying, ‘You keep Mommy awake,’” the prosecutor said.
The crash occurred on April 4 of last year, when Teague slammed her Hyundai into a telephone pole on Broadway between Oro and North First streets.
Witnesses testified at an earlier hearing that they were drawn out of their homes when they heard a loud boom about 10 p.m. that night. One woman described seeing Teague standing outside her wrecked car, crying hysterically while holding the youngest child in her arms.
The older boy was stumbling nearby with blood on his face. Carlee was still in the backseat of the Hyundai, strapped into a car seat.
A witness said she saw Teague go to the front of the car, pull out a black box and raise what looked like a pill bottle to her mouth. The witness said she saw the defendant ingest something that might have been a liquid.
Teague had been prescribed and was taking methadone, a pain reliever usually used in the treatment of heroin addiction. Methamphetamine was also found inside the vehicle.
Deputy Public Defender Charles Millioen asked the judge at the sentencing hearing to give Teague another chance by placing her on probation and sending her to drug treatment. The attorney argued that Teague had a “horrific childhood” and was self-medicating to deal with the effects of the trauma she endured.
The crash, Millioen said, was a direct result of that self medication. He also pointed out that the jury did not find that his client had acted with gross negligence.
But the prosecutor argued that it was Teague’s choices that caused her daughter’s death and her other childrens’ injuries that night, even though it was clear she did not intend to hurt them.
“To paint her as a victim in this situation, I think, is grossly unfair,” McLeod said.
Carlee’s father, Carlos Ramirez, had asked the judge to impose the least amount of jail or prison time that was possible, saying he was worried about Teague’s surviving children and how they would fare without their mother.
“No matter how much time you’re going to give her, my girl is not coming back,” Ramirez said.
Teague already has credit for more than a year in custody. She will have to serve 85 percent of her remaining prison time before she is eligible for release.
[email protected]
