Action for Children has launched a new service supporting families in Devon. The charity, which is running the service on behalf of Devon County Council (DCC), said more families would be able to access help and support from its free dedicated family hub advice line and website.DCC said the new additions would "compliment" the in-person services already available.It said it still planned to have a network of 10 main family hub centres across the county.
Action for Children, which is running the advice line and website on behalf of the council, said the service was a "new way of bringing together all the help a family may need in one place". Rob Wyatt, the charity's operational director in the South West, said the support frontline workers provided every day in the hubs was "invaluable"."We're thrilled to be able to extend that help to families online and on the phone – meaning they can access support quickly and at a time that suits them," he said. "That is not only the best way to ensure positive outcomes for the whole family, but it also avoids the need for costlier interventions further down the line."
DCC said a public consultation was held throughout May and June to understand how families use the current children's centre buildings.It said "no decision" had been made about how the buildings would be used and a report was scheduled to go to the cabinet committee in August. "The proposal is still to have a network of 10 main family hub centres across county, at least one in every district council area," it said."These would be bases from which families can access the wider range of support that family hubs offer, with meeting rooms, space for groups to use, and for staff to meet and train."
It said it also planned a number of "outreach hub spaces" in communities at places such as schools, libraries, community hospitals and community centres to bring services closer to people's homes.Councillor Andrew Leadbetter, the council's cabinet member with responsibility for children's services, added: "We're expanding the range of support by linking with existing community support groups. "The transition to family hubs will be a gradual one over the next 12 months."
Follow BBC Devon on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk.
