The BBC is to move some of its key departments and staff outside London to make the corporation more reflective of the UK as a whole.
It said its plans represent a "top-to-bottom change" and its biggest transformation in decades.
Entire departments and news divisions will be moved to Birmingham, Cardiff, Leeds, Glasgow and Salford.
The BBC's 22,000 employees, many of whom are currently working from home, were briefed on the plans on Thursday.
The plans include: 
"Our mission must be to deliver for the whole of the UK and ensure every household gets value from the BBC," said director general Tim Davie.
"These plans will get us closer to audiences, create jobs and investment, and develop and nurture new talent."
Other changes to the corporation will include:
Mr Davie said the BBC had been "an essential part of the UK's culture, democracy and creativity for almost a century" and had faced some of its "toughest moments" over the last year.
"Now, as we look to the future, we must play our part in supporting social and economic recovery; rebuilding the creative sector and telling the stories that need to be heard from all corners of the UK."
Plans set out in detail in the BBC's 13-page Across the UK document include:
In an address to staff on Thursday morning, Mr Davie said the plans would make the BBC "a genuinely UK-wide organisation" and "a post-Covid success story admired worldwide".
"People must feel we are closer to them," he said. "This shift will create a much more distributed model that moves not just people, but power and decision-making to the UK's Nations and regions.
"Taken together, our proposals mean the BBC will cumulatively spend at least an extra £700m outside London by 2027/28."
Broadcasting trade union Bectu said it was "good to see the BBC wanting to build on its strong local offering and prioritise getting closer to communities".
But its "immediate concern" was how the plans would affect is members, adding "the devil will be in the detail".
It said it would examine the proposals closely to ensure "workers are properly supported through these changes and that the need for redundancies is minimised".
MP Julian Knight, chairman of the DCMS committee, said it welcomed the BBC's decision to "rebalance" and "give licence fee payers greater bang for their buck".
He expressed caution over the financial implications, however, saying he hoped the BBC would not repeat "some of the costly mistakes made by the BBC in its previous move to Salford".
When Mr Davie was named the BBC's new director general last June, he said the BBC's mission had "never been more relevant, important or necessary".
"Looking forward, we will need to accelerate change so that we serve all our audiences in this fast-moving world," he said. 
When he took over the job later in the year, he said there had to be "a radical shift" in the BBC's focus to ensure everyone got value from the licence fee.
"If current trends continue, we will not feel indispensable enough to all our audience," he said. "We must evolve to protect what we cherish."
Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
