England center Manu Tuilagi will miss the Rugby World Cup after being convicted of assaulting a taxi driver and two female police officers in the latest off-field indiscretion by the powerful Samoa-born player.
Tuilagi grabbed a cab driver by the throat and kicked the taxi’s wing mirror on a night out in the central English city of Leicester on April 26, British prosecutors said Friday. When the police officers arrived, he pushed them hard in the chest as they attempted to place him in handcuffs.
Tuilagi was found guilty Wednesday of two counts of assault, one of assault by beating, and another of causing criminal damage. He must pay 6,205 pounds ($9,800) in fines, compensation, charges, and costs.
England coach Stuart Lancaster said Tuilagi — who turns 24 on Monday — will not be considered for selection for the national team until January 2016, ruling him out of contention for his home Rugby World Cup, which starts in September.
“It is something I deeply regret and I totally accept the sentence given by the court,” Tuilagi said in a statement. “The club and Stuart have been very supportive and I understand their sanctions, too.
“I know, as an England player, the need to conduct myself as a good role model for the game. I am very disappointed because my actions have let so many people down, and I can only hope for a future chance to prove myself again.”

        
    
Tuilagi, who has 25 caps, is regarded by Lancaster as one of England’s indispensable players. He was a guaranteed member of the World Cup squad provided he recovered from a groin strain which has sidelined him since October.
However, his career has been blighted by controversies. He was detained by New Zealand police and fined by England rugby officials for jumping into Auckland harbor from a ferry after England was eliminated from the 2011 World Cup.
In 2013, Tuilagi apologized to British Prime Minister David Cameron after making a “bunny ears” sign behind him during a photo at Downing Street. Tuilagi and other members of the British and Irish Lions squad were there following the 2-1 series victory over Australia.
“As role models and ambassadors for the game, the highest standards of behavior are expected from every England player both on and off the field,” Lancaster said.
“Having spoken to Manu, he understands and accepts both the seriousness of the offenses to which he has pleaded guilty, and the consequences of his behavior to his club, country, and the game as a whole.”
Lancaster has established a reputation for being a disciplinarian, taking a strict approach to off-field misbehavior since becoming coach after England’s 2011 World Cup campaign that was marred by indiscipline. Scrumhalf Danny Care was dropped for the Six Nations in 2012 after getting arrested twice in three weeks for alcohol-related offenses.
It is a big call by Lancaster, with Tuilagi one of the best line-breakers in world rugby. Midfield has been a problem area for England and Lancaster could now stick with a center partnership of Jonathan Joseph and Luther Burrell, which fared well in this year’s Six Nations.
Tuilagi’s club, Leicester Tigers, will also take internal disciplinary action.
“Manu knows and accepts his responsibilities and has received a significant punishment in being excluded from the England squad,” Leicester director of rugby Richard Cockerill said.
“While we do not in any way condone his actions in this case, Manu is a young man who has grown up in the public eye and he is a good professional in a top-level environment.”
