Banning the boats, saving the NHS and cutting taxes – heated debates over big issues are making the headlines in the general election campaign. But in rural communities in Yorkshire and Lincolnshire, young voters tell the BBC affordable homes must be higher on the agenda.
High prices and low wages in the countryside mean it is even more difficult to secure a place called home than it is in urban areas. According to the Campaign for Rural England, average property prices in the countryside are 16 times higher than the average wage. The organisation claims the rural housing system is “broken”.The BBC spoke to first-time buyers, an "overcrowded" family of five and housing providers to get their views on the matter ahead of next month's general election.George Musgrave and his girlfriend, Courtney Walls, say the new government needs to focus on the housing crisis.Ms Walls, 26, who is a care worker and Mr Musgrave, 29, who is a customer support specialist, recently bought their first home on the outskirts of Scunthorpe thanks to a shared ownership scheme.“We absolutely love it,” says Ms Walls.They own 51% of the two-bedroomed new-build, and rent the remaining 49% from Places for People - a social housing provider.Mr Musgrave says the scheme “gave us hope” of ever being able to own a home, but he feels there are not enough opportunities for young couples like them.John Greaves, from Places for People, says he was “delighted” the pair got the keys to their home, but adds there are "many people still on waiting lists”.“There is only one solution. We need to build more homes,” Mr Greaves says.He is appealing to the new government to open up the planning process and funding to enable social housing providers to do this.
Charlotte Fawcett was “ecstatic” when she was awarded a two-bedroom property on a social housing scheme in the Lincolnshire market town of Spilsby.Quaint, quiet and close to friends and family, it means the 30-year-old has support raising her two daughters."It means security for them," she says.But since the birth of her third daughter, Hallie, the family of five are now officially classed as “overcrowded”.However, she is able to see the positives, adding: “I’m optimistic about the future. "My partner works full-time. It’s not possible for us to save money at the minute, but our children have a warm bed to sleep in and food in their tummies.“There are a lot of families far worse off than us.”
Katie Taylor, from the housing provider Lincs Rural Housing Association (LRHA), says it is “hugely frustrating” that they do not have a bigger home available to offer Ms Fawcett and her family.“We have 428 homes and demand is so high, we could fill them over again”, she says.She also says any stigma associated with social housing is unfounded, adding: "We have allocated properties recently to NHS workers, ambulance drivers - people from all walks of life.”

Rachael Fullwood, chief executive of LRHA, says “decades of underinvestment” in rural housing must be “unpicked”.Ms Fullwood says politicians “don’t understand the challenges” of building homes in the countryside.“There’s no better feeling than giving people the keys to their own front door,” she says.
You can use the BBC News lookup tool to find out which constituency you are in, who is standing as a candidate in your area and which polling station you can vote at.Follow BBC Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastyorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
