Former District Attorney Seth Williams was sentenced on Tuesday to five years in prison for accepting a bribe.
The sentencing was the latest chapter in a sad and disappointing story of a career prosecutor who was once seen as a rising political star.
But Williams’ two terms as Philadelphia’s first Black D.A. ended in a corruption scandal.
An investigation into Williams’ financial affairs resulted in a wide-ranging indictment in which he was charged with 29 counts of bribery, extortion and fraud including accepting cash and gifts, fraudulently using thousands of dollars from his campaign fund for personal expenses, misusing city vehicles and misappropriating money intended to fund his mother’s nursing home care.
Two weeks into his June trial, Williams pleaded guilty to a single count of accepting a bribe from a businessman who admitted giving him a $3,000 sofa and thousands of dollars in cash payments.
Prosecutors said Williams admitted to committing all the misconduct although 28 counts were dismissed.
The 50-year-old Democrat didn’t speak during the hearing and instead had his attorney read a statement in which he apologized and said he had failed the people of Philadelphia.
“Rather than holding myself to a higher standard, I squandered that trust placed in me,” the statement said. As his lawyer read the statement, Williams’ wiped away tears.
U.S. District Judge Paul Diamond said Williams “humiliated” his office and the city by selling it to “parasites.”

        
    
“Your profound dishonesty has to be deterred,” Diamond said before ordering that Williams be imprisoned immediately.
The judge is right that corruption must be deterred. The question is how?
What the judge said about Williams could have been said to any number of Philadelphia politicians who have been found guilty of corruption.
As The Associated Press documents, “Williams is just the latest in a long run of Philadelphia politicians to be convicted of corruption. Just in the past 10 years, they have included former U.S. Rep. Chaka Fattah, a Democrat found guilty in 2016 in a racketeering scheme; the former speaker and four other members of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives; two members of the Pennsylvania Senate; and a Philadelphia city councilman.
The sentencing came just a year after former Attorney General Kathleen Kane, the first woman and first Democrat elected as the state’s top prosecutor, was sentenced to 10 to 23 months in prison. She was convicted of two felony counts of perjury and seven misdemeanor charges for unlawfully leaking grand jury materials in a political payback scheme and lying about it under oath.”
As Transparency International, which describes itself as a global coalition against organization, notes “there is no silver bullet” to fighting corruption. But there are some actions that can be done.
“Effective law enforcement and prosecution is essential to ensure the corrupt are punished and break the cycle of impunity, or freedom from punishment or loss,” says Transparency International.
Other key reforms include focusing on improving financial management and strengthening the role of auditing agencies; disclosure of budget information, which prevents waste and misappropriation and promoting transparency and access to information.
Perhaps the broken window theory of law enforcement may also be useful in curbing corruption. The theory is that monitoring small crimes such as vandalism and public drinking helps to create an atmosphere of order and lawfulness, thereby preventing more serious crimes from happening.
The same week that Williams was sentenced for bribery there, was an indictment of two consultants involved in U.S. Rep. Bob Brady’s 2012 re-election campaign which included charges of conspiracy and lying to the FBI. The charge of making false statements to FBI agents was brought against consultant Donald Jones. Co-defendant Kenneth Smukler is not charged with that crime.
Jones and Smukler pleaded not guilty to charges that they had conspired to hide a $90,000 payment from Brady’s campaign five years ago to persuade Brady’s opponent former Philadelphia Municipal Court Judge Jimmie Moore to drop out of the race in 2012.
It should be duly noted that Jones and Smukler are innocent until proven guilty. But some political observers have publicly stated that what Jones and Smukler are accused of doing may be unsavory but it is not illegal. Their defenders argue this is common practice and the way politics is done in this city and elsewhere.
The city’s pay-to-play politics has also been well documented. A sense of entitlement that too many politicians have, can also lead to unethical and illegal conduct.
If we want to curb corruption in this city we must speak out against a pervasive and entrenched cavalier attitude regarding unethical conduct, a slippery slope toward corruption.
