A mother and son whose rottweiler dogs fatally savaged a woman in a "frenzied" attack have been given suspended jail sentences.Marie Stevens, 40, was attacked in Netherton, Merseyside, after she had approached the dogs to stroke them in August 2023.Brian Walshe, 42 and his mother, Rachel Walshe, 69, both admitted a single charge of owning a dog dangerously out of control, causing injury resulting in death.In a victim impact statement, Ms Stevens' husband Mark said he had been left in "utter turmoil".
Ms Stevens, had been on her way to have an evening meal at her sister's house, when she was first bitten on the arm by one of the dogs causing its lead to be dropped.Liverpool Crown Court heard she was then mauled by both dogs and "ragged" in what was described as a "frenzied" attack.Records showed the first dog had been taken to the vets after showing signs of aggression two days before the fatal attack on Park Lane West.Ms Stevens, a care worker, of Brighton-le-Sands, Merseyside, was bitten several times and had to have skin grafts before being discharged from hospital two weeks later.But the next day she collapsed and died at home following a deep vein thrombosis that pathologists said was a direct result of the dog attack.
In his victim impact statement, Mr Stevens said: "I'm struggling to find the exact words to describe the utter turmoil I have been left in."I can't admit she's gone. I'm lonely. I can't even begin to process what's happened." Her sister, Nicola Newton, said: "She died after stroking dogs. Who would believe that?"Judge Andrew Menary KC, Recorder of Liverpool, said: "The circumstances of this case are shocking and deeply tragic."Marie Stevens was a kind and loving person who particularly loved animals and particularly loved dogs and what happened was a terrible irony."That is the problem with huge and powerful dogs like these, this is why the public is so concerned about casual ownership of such animals."Lawyers for the defendants said it had been a "momentary lapse" which had allowed the dogs to attack as a pack. Both were given 10 months prison sentences, suspended for 18 months and a 20-day rehabilitation order.They were ordered to pay £3,500 for the upkeep of the dogs in police kennels since the attack and the judge ordered that the animals be destroyed. Ms Walshe, who the court heard had kept rottweiler dogs for 30 years, was disqualified from owning a dog indefinitely and her son was disqualified for five years.Mr Walshe's lawyer had told the court he had "desperately" fought to get back control of the dogs when the attack happened.   
Listen to the best of BBC Radio Merseyside on Sounds and follow BBC Merseyside on Facebook, X, and Instagram. You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
