A deal has been reached to build one of the UK's biggest indoor ice skating and entertainment arenas in Manchester.
Developer Peel Waters has agreed for property company ICITIES to build the multi-purpose rink by Chill Factore at the Trafford Centre.
It is set to be run by chain Planet Ice, which operates 14 other venues across the UK.
James Whittaker of Peel Waters said the "brilliant attraction" could also become a venue for Olympic hopefuls.
He told BBC Radio Manchester the arena would have several thousand seats for crowds to watch sports such as ice hockey, and will also feature a speed skating track.
The project had "exciting potential" to host professional teams and build on the popularity of ice hockey clubs like Manchester Storm, Mr Whittaker said.
He said he hoped to see a planning application submitted by the summer, with the project expected to take 12 to 15 months to build at the former Soccer Dome site that was cleared by Peel Waters last year. 
It comes after the firm, part of North West property giant the Peel Group, reached terms with the developer for the new arena to be constructed and leased to Planet Ice.
The ice rink chain's chief officer Heath Rhodes said the site was easily accessible from the M60, meaning customers from "Liverpool, Warrington and Manchester are all within close range".
But the project will not solely cater for ice skating and other winter sports, with the arena designed to be a "multi-use space" that includes "on and off ice entertainment" as well as food and drink outlets.
ICITIES director Nick Payne said the "showcase" arena would address a "general lack of first-rate facilities for many event space operators like virtual reality, Esports, racket sports as well as screening and live entertainment".
Meanwhile Mr Rhodes said the project would help take pressure off Planet Ice's Oakfield Road facility nearby in Altrincham, which was "often at capacity".
The latest deal from Peel Waters, which oversaw major North West infrastructure project like Salford's MediaCityUK and Wirral Waters, comes after it announced a £1bn scheme to create new district, water park and surf lagoon in Trafford.
Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook, X and Instagram? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
