Luton Town fans have been waking up to the "surreal" reality that their team will be playing Premier League football next season.
The Hatters beat Coventry City in sudden-death penalties in the Championship play-off final to send them back to the top flight for the first time in 31 years.
It is a far cry from their days scrapping it out in the non-league pyramid nine years ago.
The victory fires the starting gun on a series of celebrations, with the Luton International Carnival on Sunday and a promotion party being planned for Monday.
Alex Roberts, a teacher from Luton, said he felt "utter relief" in the Wembley stands when Coventry missed their last penalty in the shootout.
"I feel so happy for the town and the community - there is a beautiful buzz about the place right now," said the 33-year-old.
"There can be a lot of negative press about Luton so it's positive to have something uplifting and engaging for a change, and for the young people.
"I don't feel like it's sunk in properly that we will have the likes of [Manchester City players] Erling Haaland and Jack Grealish coming down to Kenilworth Road."
"I just burst into tears when they missed their last penalty," said Helen Gatward, who was at Wembley with brother Simon Gatward.
"I'm going to be floating on cloud nine for months."
The 42-year-old graphic designer watched her first Luton match in 1991 - against Tottenham Hotspur because she wanted to see Paul Gascoigne - but she has been a Hatters fan ever since.
"It feels surreal this morning - I have to keep pinching myself," she said.
"At some points it was horrible to watch," said Jayne Humphreys, who was at the match with husband Dean Humphreys and son Daniel.
The family, along with crowds of other Luton fans, spent hours trying to get home, with train delays and cancellations reported from London Euston and Watford, but she said it did not dampen the spirits of the singing supporters.
"It felt right from the minute we left our house," said the 53-year-old legal assistant.
Former Luton chairman Nick Owen told BBC Breakfast: "I am buzzing, still pinching myself after what we've been through."
The BBC presenter was in post in 2008, when the club was threatened with bankruptcy, and remained in the hot seat until 2017.
He said he hoped the cash windfall coming the club's way would speed up the process of moving from Kenilworth Road - a ground accommodating little over 10,000 people - to Power Court with up to 23,000 seats.
"This will facilitate, speed up, accelerate our moving to a new stadium because the funds will be so invaluable," said Mr Owen.
"When we do get a new stadium I think the crowds will look considerably bigger; the fanbase is huge and it's worldwide as well."
Like other fans, Tariq Khan did not return to Luton from Wembley until about midnight after negotiating train delays.
"When that penalty went over it was just pure jubilation," said Mr Khan, who was behind the goal for the shoot-out.
"It still hasn't sunk in and I don't think it will until the fixture list is released."
Kevin Harper, a board member at the Luton Town Supporters' Trust, said: "It's an incredible achievement from everyone, top to bottom, who's been involved in our journey.
"It means absolutely everything."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp on 0800 169 1830
