Want more Olympics?
 Sign up for our daily 
Postcards from Paris newsletter.
A’ja Wilson and the United States women’s basketball team can move closer to their record eighth-consecutive Olympic gold medal Wednesday at the 
Paris Olympics
, while Lin Yu-ting competes in boxing. 
See the 
full schedule
 of events and read more on what to watch below:
Led by two-time WNBA MVP A’ja Wilson, the seven-time defending champion U.S. extended its 
impressive Olympic winning streak
 to 58 games Sunday. The U.S. women will take on Nigeria in the quarterfinals at 9:30 p.m. CEST/3:30 p.m. EDT at Bercy Arena. 
Nigeria is the 
first African country
 to make the men’s or women’s elimination round at the Olympics.
The winner of that game advances to the semifinals to face the winner of Serbia’s quarterfinal matchup against Australia, tipping off at 11 a.m. CEST/5 a.m. EDT.
The other quarterfinal matchups are Spain versus Belgium at 2:30 p.m. CEST/8:30 a.m. EDT and Germany facing France at 6 p.m. CEST/12 p.m. EDT.
The winners of Spain-Belgium and France-Germany will meet in the semifinals Friday.
The excitement in track and field continues with the men’s 400-meter final at 9:20 p.m. CEST/3:20 p.m. EDT at the Stade de France.
Kirani James of Grenada had the fastest time in Tuesday’s semifinals, finishing his heat in a season-best 43.78 seconds. Muzala Samukonga sprinted to the final in 43.81 seconds and set a Zambia national record. American Quincy Hall qualified at 43.95.

        
    
Additionally, the men’s discus final will start at 8:25 p.m. CEST/2:25 p.m. EDT, and the men’s steeplechase final will round out the day’s action at 9:43 p.m. CEST/3:43 p.m. EDT.
Lin Yu-ting of Taiwan fights Esra Yildiz Kahraman of Turkey in a women’s 57-kilogram semifinal at 9:30 p.m. CEST/3:30 p.m. EDT at Roland Garros.
Lin and fellow boxer Imane Khelif of Algeria have been at the 
center of a clash
 over gender identity and regulations in sports, as critics have brought up their disqualification from the world championships last year after the 
banned International Boxing Association
 claimed they failed unspecified eligibility tests for women’s competition.
Catch up on the latest from Day 11 of the 2024 Paris Olympics:
Lin won her opening Olympic boxing bout, beating Sitora Turdibekova of Uzbekistan 5-0. She 
then defeated
 Svetlana Kamenova Staneva of Bulgaria 5-0 to advance to the semis and ensure she will win at least a bronze medal. 
Khelif 
also clinched a medal
 when she won an emotional bout against Anna Luca Hamori of Hungary.
Olympic boxing does not stage bronze-medal bouts, so the losers of both semifinal fights receive bronze.
Lin is a two-time Olympian who did not medal in Tokyo in 2021. She has not spoken about the controversy during her Paris run but said after the quarterfinals that she is focused on winning a gold medal.
AP Summer Olympics: 
https://apnews.com/hub/2024-paris-olympic-games
