Maybe it was destiny that Jeff Camelio ended up with the Nashville Predators.
In the fall of 1998, the 21-year-old Camelio had taken his first equipment manager’s job in the ECHL with the South Carolina Stingrays. But before Camelio officially started working for the Stingrays, his old boss with the American Hockey League’s Rochester Americans, Pete Rogers, called to see if he would be interested in working the Predators’ inaugural NHL training camp.
Camelio, a native of Rochester, N.Y., jumped at the chance.
“It was such a great experience for me to be around Pete and the team and I learned a lot in those couple of weeks I was with them,” Camelio said. “I guess it was just meant to be for me to work in Nashville.”
Camelio spent four seasons as the Stingrays’ head equipment manager from 1998-2002, then three years in the AHL with the Bridgeport Sound Tigers before getting the call to work for the Predators in 2005. He’s been with the Predators as the team’s assistant equipment manager ever since.
Since his days in the ECHL with the Stingrays, Camelio always had his sights set on the NHL.
“The goal was always to get to the NHL,” Camelio said. “I didn’t know how long it would take or how I was going to get there, but that was the goal when I started out in this business. Just like any player or any coach, my goal was to get to the NHL and win a Stanley Cup.”
Camelio’s dream is on the verge of coming true. The eighth-seeded Predators steamrolled their way through the NHL’s Western Conference playoffs during their run to the Stanley Cup Finals. The last remaining obstacle for the Predators are the defending Stanley Cup champion Pittsburgh Penguins. Game 3 of the finals is Saturday at 8 p.m. (NBCSN) in Nashville at Bridgestone Arena. The Penguins lead the best-of-seven series, 2-0.

        
    
“It’s an amazing feeling getting this far,” Camelio said. “We’ve got one more step. My ultimate goal is to be a head equipment guy in the NHL, but just to get to the Stanley Cup Finals is an amazing experience. There are guys that wait their whole career and never get this chance.”
The lessons Camelio learned with the Stingrays have served him well in the NHL. Without the resources that he has now in Nashville, Camelio said he had to improvise in solving problems and fixing equipment when he was in the ECHL.
“Almost everything I learned about the trade, about doing my job, I learned in the minor leagues and especially in South Carolina with the Stingrays,” Camelio said. “In the minors, you don’t have all the budgets you have in the NHL. The biggest difference between the NHL and the minors is that you learn how to fix things down there. In the NHL, you replace things.
 
 Nashville Predators assistant equipment manager Jeff Camelio was the equipment manager for the South Carolina Stingrays from 1998-2002. (Photo by John Russell/NHLI via Getty Images).
“Working in the minors prepares you for just about anything you’ll see in the NHL. Most of the guys that get here have worked their way up through the minors. It’s almost a rite of passage.”
One of his main jobs with the Predators is repairing damaged or broken equipment, something he perfected with the Stingrays.
“Down there guys got one pair of new skates per season if they were lucky,” Camelio said. “Up here guys are getting six, seven or eight pairs of new skates every season. Fixing things like skates was a must down there, you really learn how to work on the fly.”
Camelio has been around championship teams at each level of the professional ranks. The Stingrays won the Kelly Cup in 2001 and while he was an assistant equipment manager with Rochester, the Americans won the AHL’s Calder Cup in 1996. He sees similarities in those teams and the current group of Predators.
“Oh, for sure there are similarities,” Camelio said. “All those teams were very tight-knit groups. It’s a little bit different in the NHL because the teams have more of an international flavor to them. Guys are from all over the world, but these guys really like each other. They hang out together, the go out to dinner. It’s just at a different level. Everyone got along on that Stingrays team, too.”
Camelio has never forgotten his roots. Two years ago when the Stingrays were making a run in the Kelly Cup playoffs, he returned to the Lowcountry to help the team.
“It just shows you the kind of guy that Jeff is,” said Stingrays president Rob Concannon. “He had a long season in the NHL, but he came back to help us out. He was an important part of the organization when he was here and I couldn’t be happier to see him move up the ranks and get his shot in the NHL.”
The Predators were one of the last teams to qualify for the postseason. Once they swept Chicago in the opening round, Camelio knew they’d make a deep run into the playoffs.
“We’ve been a pretty good team all along, but we had some adversity during the regular-season and I think that made us stronger,” Camelio said. “When we beat Chicago, it was like we’ve got a real chance at this. We’ve had some injuries, so that’ll make it harder.”
During the games, Camelio stands next to Predators head coach Peter Laviolette. As a result, he’s been getting plenty of facetime on television during the playoffs, especially when the Predators score a goal.
“Yeah, that’s kind of my spot on the bench, so I’ll get some texts or calls after some games,” Camelio said. “I’ll have friends say, ‘I saw you on TV.’ He does his fist pump and you can see me right behind him doing the same thing. I get caught up in the moment like everyone else on the bench.”
Bridgestone Arena has a reputation as one of the toughest places to play for the opposition. It’s well earned, Camelio said.
“The fans are unbelievable here, everyone says it, but it’s really true here, we have the best fans in the league,” he said “The building is so loud. I can’t wait for Game 3 in our own place.”
