Had Jesse Spratt not assaulted his girlfriend at their Springfield home on the night of Aug. 25, 2016, the property crime spree that led him to be sentenced Friday to 30 years in prison might have continued without interference.
But in addition to reporting the assault to Springfield police that night, the woman informed officers that Spratt had been breaking into homes in Eugene and Springfield — and even told them where they could find piles of stolen items in the home.
“She had had it with Mr. Spratt,” Lane County Assistant District Attorney Paul Graebner told Lane County Circuit Judge Mustafa Kasubhai during Friday’s sentencing hearing.
Spratt initially denied involvement in any break-ins and was sent to prison in the domestic abuse case in October 2016.
But police continued working on the burglaries, and eventually collected what Graebner called “overwhelming” evidence against Spratt, who returned to court earlier this month and pleaded guilty to 34 charges.
In addition to admitting that he’d committed eight home burglaries in mid-2016, Spratt also pleaded guilty to 23 theft charges and three counts of being a felon in possession of a firearm.
Nine guns — six of which, Graebner said, have not been recovered by authorities — were stolen during the crime spree, along with a vehicle and other valuables such as jewelry and electronics.
Police learned Spratt had sold some of the property and kept a detailed log of the items he’d taken.

        
    
Spratt’s lawyer blamed his client’s drug use for the break-ins and asked Kasubhai to impose a 12-year sentence in the case.
But after hearing in court from multiple victims who spoke of the crimes’ impact on the lives of their families, the judge sided with Graebner and imposed a 30-year prison term.
“When I hear about the trauma, loss of trust and fear you inflicted upon the (victims’) children, it completely justifies the sentence you’ll be serving,” Kasubhai told Spratt.
The sentence is among the lengthiest imposed in a Lane County property crime case in recent memory. Spratt will begin serving the 30-year term after he completes his sentence in the domestic violence case in late 2019.
Spratt apologized in court to his victims, some of whom — after Kasubhai had left the courtroom following the hearing — urged him aloud to “find God” in prison.
Earlier in court, Eugene resident Ragina Lange spoke about the difficulty that her family has had coping with the knowledge that a stranger had ransacked their house. She said her son had particular trouble getting over the incident.
“It’s hurtful and it’s taken a long time for us to feel safe in our home again,” Lange said. She asserted that Spratt had stolen her son’s blanket, in addition to items including jewelry, sports memorabilia and music equipment.
Another victim, a Springfield man who asked that his name not be used, said his two young children struggled to understand why someone had broken into their house while the family was away on a camping trip in late July 2016. Spratt stole guns, jewelry and a video camera that the man said contained video of his childrens’ births.
“It’s been emotionally draining,” the man said.
Spratt will be in his 60s when he completes his prison sentence.
Follow Jack Moran on Twitter @JackMoranRG . Email 
[email protected]
 .
