A road along an erosion-hit coastline in Norfolk has partially collapsed after the area was battered by strong winds combined with the high tide.
Several feet of dunes in Hemsby were washed away overnight into Friday, undermining another part of The Marrams where several houses have already been demolished.
Amanda Goffin, a volunteer at Hemsby Lifeboat, said the road then "went in before our eyes" during the afternoon.
Police were contacted to cordon it off.
Dan Hurd, the Hemsby Lifeboat coxswain, said: "It's not looking promising for Hemsby - north and south of the Gap's been hit. 
"Late last night we lost probably about 20ft (6m) to the north of the Gap and the south's now been compromised." 
Ms Goffin, who had been out to The Marrams earlier, said: "One second the road was there, and then there was an almighty crack and the entire lot went all in one go and just slid away before our eyes."
She said a number of cars were parked on one side of the road that is now inaccessible, but she said she hoped most people were notified in time to remove them.
"I hope we've got most of them off but if we haven't, unfortunately, they are now stranded.
"We're working alongside the emergency services - there is foot access but as for fire engines etc, nothing is getting along that road now, so we'd like to hope that perhaps residents will be moved if they're at high risk. 
"Some of them are holiday homes, but some are still residential and they live there full-time and it's just very, very sad."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
Have you been affected by issues covered in this story? You can share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways:
If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission. 
