A grass roots football club set up more than 100 years ago in Suffolk has folded.
Formed in 1920, Westerfield United FC made the decision to close after it faced a number of setbacks which included four players quitting at the weekend after a 14-0 loss.
Club chairman Philip Greenhalgh said "player recruitment, financial restraints and brutal defeats" were to blame.
The news was announced on Monday. 
The club joined the Suffolk and Ipswich League (SIL) in 1947 and most recently played in the senior division.
Mr Greenhalgh said the players leaving after the defeat at the weekend was "the final nail in the coffin" for the club.
He said player retention was affected by Covid-19, as it restricted the social element of the game, and suggested Ipswich Town wins may have played a part in the club's demise.
"A lot of people have perhaps chosen to watch Ipswich, as opposed to playing," he said.
"We've got arguably the best facilities in the senior division. We've got a pitch to die for, all the facilities are tip-top, we've got a bar attached to where we play, an all-weather training area under lights but for some reason, we just can't seem to get players to the club."
Tyler Howell, the captain of Westerfield United, said former players were "devastated" with the outcome, adding that it was "inevitable".
"It's not been an easy ride but that's part and parcel of football," he said.
"Westerfield have always struggled to attract players due to the financial side of things, but we've always tried overcoming this with the facilities that are provided.
"It wasn't just the players to blame as it was an overall lack of commitment and ambition all-round.
"The players express our gratitude to Phil, committee members, volunteers and our former managers Aren and Shaun over recent years who have helped us along our footballing journey."
A number of clubs in the SIL have already folded in the last year, including Bildeston Rangers, Bramford Road Old Boys and Benhall St Mary. 
SIL chairman Keith Norton said: "It's a very difficult time for football... There'll be a few more clubs [to fold]."
He agreed that Covid-19 and the cost-of -iving crisis had affected players, but stated: "If two clubs are feeling the pinch, there is no reason why they can't merge."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
