Two beagles recovered by police after a break-in at a facility that breeds animals for laboratory research have been returned to the site. 
Cambridgeshire Police was called to MBR Acres in Wyton on Tuesday.
Protest group Animal Rebellion, supported by celebrities including singer Will Young and presenter Chris Packham, called for the dogs to be rehomed.
The force said it was legally "compelled" to give the animals back.
Following concerns raised, the force said it contacted the Home Office which, alongside its Animals in Science Regulation Unit (ASRU), which administers and enforces the licensing for MBR Acres, "supported the return of the dogs for their wellbeing".
In a statement Cambridgeshire Police said: "We recognise the strong feelings this issue has raised in many people, however, we had no legal justification to retain the dogs and therefore were compelled to return them."
Another 18 dogs were taken and have not been recovered, the force said. 
Police arrested 14 people as part of their burglary and aggravated trespass inquiry and they have been released on conditional bail until next year.
On Twitter, singer Will Young said: "I don't condone illegal activity, however these two dogs need to avoid being returned to being tested on or put down."
The two recovered dogs have become known as Libby and Love.
BBC Springwatch/Autumnwatch presenter Chris Packham said on Twitter: "I just can't see where @CambsCops are going with not handing over Libby & Love the beagles rescued by @RebelsAnimal from the hideous MBR Acres."
MBR (Marshall Bio Resources), which runs the site, breeds and sells animals to the medical testing industry. 
The company said it was pleased the dogs had been returned. 
In a statement it said: "The company can confirm that MBR Acres will not euthanise these dogs. They are healthy and will be used to help research.
"We remain proud of what we do every day because our work allows the progress of medicine to improve, and often save the lives of humans and animals."
Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk
