Two further primary schools have closed for the rest of the week after inspections found reinforced autoclaved aerated concrete (Raac).
Conwy council said early indications were that the material at Ysgol Maes Owen in Kinmel Bay was in good condition.
Meanwhile, Denbighshire council said the risk was low at Ysgol Trefnant.
However, both added they were being cautious and structural engineers would investigate further.
It comes after concerns over potentially risky Raac prompted the closure of more than 100 educational buildings in England.
In Wales, two schools in Anglesey previously closed following inspections, one of which has now reopened.
In a letter to parents, Ysgol Maes Owen's headteacher said the risk at this point at the school was very low.
Children in Year 3 and below were sent home with a work pack to cover Thursday and Friday, the school said, while pupils from year 4 to year 6 could access their learning remotely.
Laura Carlyle-Jones, a parent at the school, said the notice given was not long enough. 
"It's difficult to juggle childcare as it is," she said.
"The children had a lot of time off during Covid, it felt like we were going back to 2020 when we got the email yesterday."
Another parent, Carrie Katlin, said her daughter had dyslexia which has made the closure more challenging.
"I don't know how to teach her. They've sent stuff home but she struggles," she said.
"Obviously we'd rather the kids be safe, so if there is any danger it needs to be sorted, but it was very last minute. 
"It could have been done over the summer holidays."
Meanwhile, at Ysgol Trefnant in Denbigh, the school will be closed on Friday 15 September only in the first instance, with any temporary measures needed to be put in place as soon as possible.
Reinforced autoclaved aerated concrete (Raac) is a lightweight material that was used between the 1950s and 1990s.
The aerated, or "bubbly" material is a cheaper alternative to standard concrete, but it is less durable and has a lifespan of about 30 years.
The Health and Safety Executive said Raac was "now life-expired", and was "liable to collapse with little or no notice".
