First Minister Michelle O'Neill has described her first Northern Ireland game at Windsor Park as a "thoroughly enjoyable experience".
She was joined by Deputy First Minister Emma Little-Pengelly at the game between the NI women's team and Montenegro.
The Uefa Women's Nations League play-off match ended in a 1-1 draw, meaning NI secured a 3-1 aggregate victory.
Ms O'Neill praised the team as "magnificent role models".
"I believe in the power of sport to unite communities and bring people together from across the political divide, north - south and across these two islands," she said.
Ms O'Neill had committed to attending a Northern Ireland match at Windsor Park after taking up the post of first minister earlier in February.
In 2023, she also showed support on social media for the Northern Ireland senior men's team ahead of a crunch game.
Ms O'Neill stood for the national anthem prior to kick off.
On arrival she said it was "great to be here this evening".
"It is going to be a great night," Ms O'Neill added.
"I think it is important for women in sport that we all get behind them and actually support them.
"I think tonight is going to be a fabulous night and I am really pleased to be here."
Ms Little-Pengelly also congratulated the Northern Ireland team on "a great result". 
"It was a fantastic match in front of passionate supporters who created an amazing atmosphere," she added.
"Everyone played with such energy and passion and should be proud of what they have achieved in such a high-stakes game.
"I have no doubt the team's performance tonight, and their efforts across the tournament, will inspire so many young girls who dream of following in their footsteps.
"The Northern Ireland women's team have been superb ambassadors and I am immensely proud of their achievements."
On arrival at Windsor Park the two ministers were greeted by Irish Football Association (IFA) chief executive Patrick Nelson and president Conrad Kirkwood.
Michelle O'Neill is not the first Sinn Féin minister to attend a match at Windsor Park.
In 2011, former Sports Minister Carál Ní Chuilín watched a Euro Qualifier game between Northern Ireland men's team and the Faroe Islands.
Ms Ní Chuilín described her visit to Windsor Park as a "new experience" and said she had enjoyed the game.
She later tweeted: "First visit to Windsor Park, enjoyed game, well-received."
Ms Ní Chuilín took her seat in the stand after the national anthem had been played. 
In 2016, then-Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness attended Northern Ireland's match against Germany during Euro 2016.
Communities Minister Gordon Lyons accompanied Ms O'Neill and Mrs Little-Pengelly to the match on Tuesday.
Junior Ministers Aisling Reilly, of Sinn Féin, and Pam Cameron of the Democratic Unionist Party were also in the stands.
Newly-elected GAA (Gaelic Athletic Association) president Jarlath Burns, who was also among the crowd watching on at Windsor Park, described the footballers as "great role models".
Northern Ireland will remain in League B of the Nations League after Tuesday's clash.
