As prices rise, people are feeling the pinch and more of us are looking at how we can save money at Christmas. 
Buying second-hand, being organised and not splurging on festive food could all save you cash, and we've spoken to those in the know about where to start. 
One of the easiest ways to save money is to check on what you already have before going shopping, as it's so easy to forget what we previously bought. 
Professional organiser Jenn Jordan said doing a recce is an easy win. 
"Start with the decorations and the wrapping paper. It is so easy to go out and get more stuff and then come home and realise you have too much," she said.
"When I'm decluttering people's houses, I find wrapped gifts quite often, and people say 'Oh that's from two years ago and I forgot to send it.' I say, just send it, or get rid of it!
"Have a think about if you got a present now, where would you have put it? Pull some things out of the wardrobe and have a poke around."
Mrs Jordan, who works with clients in Leeds and London through her business Orjenise, said novelty gifts should be avoided, as they were not only a waste of money but also bad for the environment.
She said to avoid "cheap gifts that are made for Secret Santas, for stockings, or for a quick laugh before going into a drawer or charity bag". 
She said: "You work hard for your money, don't spend it on landfill novelty gifts that mean nothing and that will fill houses with tat."
If it's the thought of paying for your Christmas food shop which has you worried, food writer Sarah Rossi has your back. 
The mum-of-two, who lives near Birmingham, has written the food blog Taming Twins since 2013 and regularly shares family recipes and money-saving shopping hacks. 
She said: "Plan, plan, plan - it is the most effective way of saving money.
"I would say don't go shopping when you're hungry, write a shopping list, and allow yourself plenty of time, because when you're shopping in a rush it's easy to overspend."
With many items advertised as being on special offer, Mrs Rossi said these things were only a bargain if you needed them - and the same goes for Christmas-branded items like cheese and desserts. 
"Everything in the supermarket is more expensive because it's labelled 'Christmas'," she said. 
"A simple ready-made pudding with fruit on top will still look festive and delicious. Just because something is labelled as being for Christmas you don't have to use it."
She also said don't feel you have to spend lots of money on a turkey "just because it's Christmas". 
"A chicken can be just as effective and more affordable - and often people prefer it," she said.
The food writer said to make sure you're not buying too much - but if you do have any leftovers, they can be easily frozen so they don't go to waste.
Amanda Harper has long been a fan of vintage fashion and is an advocate for buying second-hand, from clothes and toys for herself and her children, to festive tableware and decorations. 
The BBC Look North presenter, who lives in Leeds, said: "I have had some absolutely gorgeous second-hand presents over the years - usually from my mum, who I think I got my charity shop obsession from. 
"Charity shops have amazing jewellery, loads of earrings and brooches for £1, £2 - the special ones you might pay up to £10 - and they are amazing quality, all for a quarter of a price that you would pay on the high street."
When her daughters were younger, she said nearly all their Christmas presents were bought second-hand. 
"My kids absolutely love going to the charity shops and when they were really little, their Christmas sacks were full of charity shop things," she said. 
"It used to be all about the big plastic toys, and I would buy them these big plastic things, and when they didn't play with them any more I could donate them right back, and not feel guilty about it. 
"These things live on, guilt-free. Now, the kids have graduated from the toy section and they're looking at the clothes rail."
Jill Coulson sells vintage goods from homeware to classic toys, through her business Alfie Robot Retro.  
"I love vintage Christmas decorations and buy them all year round," she said. 
"Some of the best decorations I ever bought were on a massively hot day in July, when people were turfing out at a car boot. That is the cheapest way to buy decorations - out of season. 
"I bought a sledge in August this year, that is definitely the time to buy as it was so much cheaper." 
She said there was less stigma around giving second-hand items as gifts, and she had sold lots of things like board games for people to give as gifts this year. 
"I sell Monopoly for about £10, and instead of paying more for the new version, you get the nice vintage board with the classic metal pieces too." 
Caro Davies writes lifestyle blog The Listed Home, where she shares her tips on home decor, DIY and crafts.
"Christmas is a massive market and this, coupled with the latest trends on social media, can all make you feel slightly lacking," she said.
"I think you can make things yourself that can look just as good - if not better - than shop-bought alternatives."
Caro has shared tutorials on her blog showing people how to make their own wrapping paper, decorative garlands and simple orange and clove pomanders. 
"You can make your own wrapping paper really cheaply using rolls of brown craft paper. I also use offcuts of cardboard to create string garlands, which I pack away and re-use every year.  
"I just think people are a bit tired of consumerism and it's nice to buck the trend and make stuff. Mindful crafting is good for positive mental health and it's a great way to save money too." 
Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
