There was a Bond last year to raise taxes in our County in order to expand the jail. The citizens of Bannock County overwhelmingly went to the ballot box and voted no. Apparently our vote doesn’t matter because the Bond has returned. Why is the Bond still alive like an undead vampire sucking the life blood out of our democratic process?
I find it problematic that they never seem to respect our vote whenever we don’t vote the way they want us too. Every time the Citizens vote against a bond or a school levy they ignore our vote and make us vote on it over and over again until they wear us out and finally get what they want. That’s not how it’s supposed to work.
It’s frustrating to open up the newspaper the day after we vote and there’s already an elected official talking about making us vote on the issue again. It just feels like they are not respecting the will of the people. It appears that they are perfectly willing to undermine our democratic election process in order to get what they want. Our elected officials obviously think that they know more than the voters do. It absolutely undermines our Representative Republic when our government thinks that a no vote means yes.
Note the British Governments response to the Brexit vote last year. The British voted to leave the European Union, that’s what Brexit means. The elite in Britain wanted to have a second referendum because their side lost. The British Government said no to a second referendum because it would undermine their democratic process. The Government said that the voice of the people will stand. The British Government was universally against Brexit and yet they still chose to respect the will of the voters. That’s the way it’s supposed to work in America too. It’s sad that the British have more respect for the voice of the people than Bannock County does.
I realize our jail is overcrowded which is why I’m not necessarily opposed to expanding the jail, but I am absolutely opposed to the method they have chosen to pay for the expansion. I am opposed to this Jail Bond because I’m against increasing taxes on a community that is already taxed too much. Bannock County has the highest property taxes in the state of Idaho and its bad for businesses and it’s bad for our citizens. The Taxes don’t need to go up anymore. I think it’s time for us to try a different approach for increasing tax revenues.

        
    
Tax Cuts actually increase revenues to the Government more than tax increases do. Cutting taxes causes the economy to expand. This brings in new businesses that pay taxes. Working people pay payroll taxes and shop more. Tax cuts create more tax payers. People’s wages increase when the economy expands which means they are going to pay more in taxes. They are paying more in taxes because the expanding economy has helped them move up the economic ladder. Tax cuts will create the kind of economy that will create new taxpayers and help people move up the economic ladder. This will ultimately bring us a lot more revenue. President John F Kennedy cut taxes across the board and there was a 62% increase in tax revenues.
The same principle applies to our County which gets its revenues from property taxes. If we cut property taxes it will make owning property more desirable. More people will buy affordable property. If we cut taxes more businesses and homeowners will move here. Increasing property ownership will increase tax revenues to the County.
Tax increases actually decrease revenues because they hurt economic growth. Tax increases shrink the economy and that only reduces tax revenues. The County would have more money for things like jails if they would simply cut taxes and spend less on stuff that’s less important.
When a politician looks at a budget everything they see in that budget looks important to them. Obviously, politicians must look at the budget and make tough decisions about what’s more important, the jail or this other thing? That’s the tough decision we hire them to make. They are ultimately going to have to cut something and redirect that money to the jail. This is the only option left because the citizens rejected the bond.
The Bond lost because of by-partisan opposition to it. Both Republican and Democrat voters rejected their Party Establishments by voting against the Bond. It is clear to me that the Establishments in both Parties’ are supporting the Bond.
The Republican voters rejected this Bond because they don’t want their taxes to go up. The Democrat voters rejected this Bond because they think we should do an inpatient drug treatment center rather than expand the jail. The Democrats make a good point. It would be much better to place drug addicted people in an inpatient drug treatment center where they can get help rather than tossing them in jail. This would cut down on jail overcrowding. Many think that other Counties should be helping us pay for the jail expansion since we are housing their inmates. It just isn’t fair for these Counties to be putting the entire financial burden of housing their criminals on the backs of Bannock County taxpayers. These other Counties need to help us pay, or build their own jails.
I want to encourage everyone to vote against the Jail Bond because it should be dead. The Citizens of Bannock County voted to kill this Bond and that must be respected. We need to make sure that our County Government hears this message loud and clear. No means no! You better find another way to expand the jail, or don’t expand it at all.
Ben Gregersen, of Pocatello, is the former Chairman of the Bannock County Republican Liberty Caucus, and currently serves as the Region 6 Director for the Republican Liberty Caucus of Idaho.
