Taskmaster presenter Alex Horne is taking on his own challenge as he helps his football club to gear up for the FA Cup first round on Saturday. 
Horne became a director of non-league side Chesham United last year after getting involved through his sons, who play for the youth teams. 
Having succeeded in the qualifying matches, Chesham now host Maidstone United in the FA Cup first round. 
"This little cup run has really put a smile on people's faces," said Horne. 
Speaking to BBC Three Counties Radio, Horne said it was a "no-brainer" when the club's chairman asked him to become a director, following a charity match at the ground. 
"I've got three boys who all play for the youth teams and I always went, gradually more and more.  
"I fell further and further out of love with Premier League football, or just less and less connected. 
"I really love the club. It's right at the heart of the town and it can do so much good for the town," he said. 
Horne, who has lived in Chesham for 20 years, has been at the ground "sorting various things" in preparation for the match.
"I posted a video online to explain to people how it can work, as we're not used to this.
"There's going to be 3,000 people at least at the stadium - and we normally get around 400 to 600," he said. 
In 2015, Chesham - who are in the Southern League Premier division - caused an FA Cup upset as they beat League 2 Bristol Rovers. 
Horne said he thinks "people don't really understand the FA Cup" with its various rounds for different tiers of football. 
"It's now the first round, but it's taken us five matches to get here, so it's really hard to get to this part. But it's now just the beginning - so it's a tough competition." 
Horne has previously hosted the Comedy Football Trophy at the Chesham ground, as well as filming for the Taskmaster TV series. 
"We had Noel Fielding, Mel Giedroyc, Hugh Dennis and Joe Lycett ...they did a task like trying to score a goal with a plastic bag in the most stylish way," he recalled. 
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
