STAMFORD-A city man who was found guilty by a Stamford jury of trying to burn down the Norwalk courthouse in 2013, was sentenced to 12 years in jail on Friday.
Joseph Stephenson, 49, was facing up to 30 years in jail for breaking into the Belden Avenue courthouse and leaving behind six bottles of kerosene. Stephenson was convicted of attempted arson, attempted tampering with evidence and burglary for the late-night, March 3, 2013 incident.
Assistant State’s Attorney Michelle Manning, who prosecuted the case during a five day trial at the Stamford courthouse in late October, asked Stamford Judge Gary White to sentence Stephenson to 15 years in jail, followed by five years special parole.
White nearly answered Manning’s wish, by sentencing Stephenson to 12 years in jail, followed by eight years special parole, the state’s most unforgiving supervisory parole program.
Still, Stephenson, who has been jailed since March 2014 on the charges, protested his innocence and said he was not guilty of the attempted arson.
A State Police trooper responding to the courthouse’s burglar alarm thwarted Stephenson’s arson attempt. The trooper arrived less than two minutes after the alarm sounded and saw the suspect peering at him through window blinds, but it was too dark to identify him.
Manning told the jury in her closing arguments the case was mostly circumstantial, but there was more than enough evidence to convict Stephenson.

        
    
A DNA researcher from the state forensic lab testified during trial that he matched Stephenson’s DNA to samples collected on each of the 32-ounce kerosene bottles as well as a canvas bag found next to them inside the state’s attorneys office as well as a hammer found near the exit of the courthouse.
State police investigators also testified they tied a Range Rover caught on surveillance cameras in the area of the courthouse that night to Stephenson.
Manning argued to the jury that Stephenson’s motive was to avoid a court appearance several days later on a larceny charge that he was ultimately convicted of and sentenced to one year in jail.
[email protected]
;
