Two girls found dead alongside other family members in a house died of knife wounds to the neck, post-mortem tests showed.
The bodies of Jasmin Kuczynska, 12, and Natasha Kuczynska, eight, were found in Costessey, near Norwich, on Friday.
Detectives confirmed they were treating their deaths and that of Kanticha Sukpengpanao, 36, as murder.
Ms Sukpengpanao and Bartlomiej Kuczynski, 45, were earlier found to have died from stab wounds to the neck.
All four bodies were discovered by police officers at a house in Allan Bedford Crescent, Queen's Hills.
Police said Mr Kuczynski's death was not being treated as suspicious and they were not looking for anyone else in connection with the murders.
Norfolk Police has referred itself to the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) over the case.
On Tuesday, the IOPC confirmed Mr Kuczynski called 999 shortly before 06:00 GMT from inside the house.
He said he was confused and worried about his mental state.
It is understood he was advised to seek medical advice and contact the NHS on 111.
Police were not despatched until after they received a second 999 call at 07:00 GMT from a member of the public and forced their way into the house.
The IOPC said it would be examining whether the handling of the contact with the first call "was appropriate and in line with force policy, training and procedures".
The IOPC's regional director Charmaine Arbouin said they would also "be making contact with the families of the deceased to explain our role".
Det Ch Insp Chris Burgess said: "We understand how incredibly shocking this incident is for all involved and for the wider community and that this latest update adds to the sense of heartbreak. 
"Our thoughts are with the family of the those found at the property grieving such a traumatic loss."
He said a cordon would remain at the address "whilst we finalise our detailed examination of the scene".
The police previously said Natasha was nine years old, which they later corrected.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
