Rain was starting to fall on the Devon market town of Totnes on Friday morning, but the weather would have to work harder than that to dampen spirits among those who voted for new MP, Liberal Democrat Caroline Voaden.The general election result meant Totnes had its first non-Tory MP in 100 years, so it was history in the making and a historic hangover for some who had celebrated in to the night at the Barrel House Ballroom.At the pub an election-themed quiz had morphed into an all-night party with an appearance from Ms Voaden and champagne flowing after the announcement of her victory in the South Devon constituency at about 05:00 BST.Among those pulling an all-nighter was the pub's events director Tracie Gillies.
"I'm feeling every one of my 57 years today," Ms Gillies admitted."When the quiz finished, we put the TV on and watched as the results come in and it was just a really, really lovely vibe in here."People that would normally vote Labour or Green Party were all cheering Caroline along."I think there was so much positivity and hope."The South Devon seat, formerly known as Totnes, had been held by Tory MP Anthony Mangnall since 2019."Everybody felt that it really was time for a change," said Ms Gillies who was among those who voted tactically after a group campaigning to unseat the Conservatives in South Devon chose Ms Voaden to represent them.
Another who voted tactically was Adam Powell."It was widely accepted around here from pretty much everyone I spoke to, to vote tactically, regardless of their particular inclinations," he said."I think people wanted something fresh and they wanted to feel like their votes had agency. "And in this particular election, there was the prospect of change, and people really got behind that and we have seen the fruits of it right now."
He said he was realistic about how quickly things could change."I don't think there's a sense that this is it and everything's going to become Utopia tomorrow," he said."There is a kind of pragmatic sense that we're still in a macro tricky situation, but at least something tangible was changed. "And I think there's a kind of pause, a pause which is really welcome."
Sitting with friends outside a cafe, Clarissa Carlyon said tactical voting "really gave me the confidence to vote and obviously, lots and lots of other people too"."So I think it's absolutely brilliant and there's a real feeling of everyone coming together," she said. "There's so many smiles around town this morning. "There's definitely excitement in the air about the real possibility of some shifts, much-needed shifts in this area."
Along the road, hairdresser Joe Public said the result brought "joy in my heart".Did tactical voting swing it for Ms Voaden?"Of course it did," he said, pointing to a poster in his shop window encouraging people to do just that.Among those keeping out of the tactical voting battle was first time voter Seren Price, who voted for the Green Party.She said she was "optimistic" for change."I think in the long run, even if they didn't get in, it will still count towards some kind of change because many people voted Green."
Lyn Kirven, who was selling eggs in the market, said there was a "sense of elation" in the town."We've needed change for a long time and people are really happy," she said."Everybody is talking about it, so it makes you think in a positive way, whereas a lot of the time it's been very negative lately. "One hopes that they [Labour] haven't got too much of a majority that we can't actually put the brakes on if we feel they're not doing what we need. "But I feel Caroline will work for the people and her constituency and we haven't had that feeling for a little while."
Resident Justin Moyle said tactical voting had "galvanised" the electorate."It's not about me and my choices, it's about creating a positive change," he said."I would have voted Labour but I was happy to vote Liberal Democrats for this area, because I knew that I had to vote that way in order to create the change in this area."Conservative voters were hard to find in the town, with one supporter declining to comment.The BBC contacted Mr Mangnall's campaign office for comment.

Follow BBC Devon on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk.
