RIO DE JANEIRO (AP) — Just seven months ahead of Brazil’s World Cup, a major football-related conference in Rio de Janeiro was called off for what organizers said was “ongoing civil unrest,” a claim denied by the state government.
State government officials said the event was cancelled in a dispute over how the event was to be financed.
No matter the reason, the cancellation is another blow to Brazil and World Cup organizers FIFA. The Confederations Cup — a World Cup warm-up event — was targeted earlier this year by protesters upset with Brazil’s poor public services, high taxes and lavish spending on the World Cup and the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics.
The protests, which at their peak saw 1 million take to the streets across Brazil on a single day, have grown smaller, but more violent and show no sign of going away.
Most Brazilians seem to support the World Cup, but want the billions spent on big sports events channeled into programs that help decrease Brazil’s stark social inequality.
FIFA has said it is preparing for violence at the month-long tournament, and has expressed confidence that police and soldiers can handle it. However, the country’s sports minister has downplayed the chance of violence or protests.
The Soccerex conference was to have been attended by top football executives and managers from Nov. 30 to Dec. 5 at Rio’s Maracana stadium.
In a statement, Soccerex said the Rio state government “took the political decision to withdraw their support.” Soccerex said it would take legal action seeking “substantial compensation” for breaching contractual obligations.

        
    
“This unique and cruel conclusion to our time in Rio was completely out of our hands,” Soccerex CEO Duncan Revie said in a statement.
In its statement, the Rio state government said it suggested to organizers they take advantage of a local law that could have helped them get “funds to organize the event in Rio de Janeiro.” The law, called the Sports Incentive Law, gives companies tax breaks when sponsoring athletes, teams and sporting events.
“The state’s recommendation was made to avoid having the state use public funds to sponsor Soccerex,” the statement added. It said Rio was perfectly able to “welcome and ensure safety during any event” held in the city.
Rio de Janeiro has held the Soccerex conference the last three years.
Soccerex made the announcement as senior executives from FIFA and the 2014 World Cup organizing committee were at the World Travel Market convention in London to update the industry on preparations.
Earlier Tuesday in London, FIFA marketing director Thierry Weil said the conference cancellation did not indicate heightened security fears ahead of its showpiece that opens June 12 in Sao Paulo and ends July 13 in Rio.
“We do not believe this will have any influence in any way or form on the organization of the FIFA World Cup,” Weil said.
Former Brazil star Ronaldo, a member of the World Cup organizing committee, suggested the decision to cancel Soccerex was an overreaction.
“The people are going out onto the streets to show their displeasure about how they were treated for so long, so they wanted change,” Ronaldo said through a translator at the London briefing.
He said canceling the event exaggerated the threat, and said the World Cup would help Brazil.
“I am in favor of any non-violent protests,” Ronaldo added. “Brazilians are tired of being ignored for so many years and want the government to respond to that weariness.”
AP Sports Writer Rob Harris contributed to this report from London.
Follow Stephen Wade at http://twitter.com/StephenWadeAP
