CHICAGO (AP) — The Latest on R&B singer R. Kelly (all times local):
3 p.m.
A sheriff’s official says somebody who did not want to be publicly identified handed a check to the Cook County clerk’s office for the full $161,633 back child support R. Kelly needed to be released from a Chicago jail.
Chief Policy Officer Cara Smith says the person wanted to remain anonymous. The section of the bond slip where a person putting up money writes their name and relationship to the inmate has been left blank.
Kelly was released on Saturday, three days after a judge ordered that he be taken into custody when he was unable to come up with the entire amount he owed.
Two weeks ago, when he was charged with aggravated sexual abuse, he was taken to jail and remained there for a weekend until a 47-year-old suburban Chicago business owner posted his $100,000 bail.
2:30 p.m.
R. Kelly’s lawyer says he’s still waiting for prosecutors to provide him with evidence that led them to charge the R&B singer with aggravated sexual abuse.
At the jail where Kelly was released on Saturday after $161,000 was posted in back child support, Steve Greenberg says there have been so many wild statements about the allegations but, “We haven’t seen one piece of evidence.”
Greenberg also said he didn’t know how the child support will play out, whether or not a judge will reduce the $20,000 a month Kelly paid “religiously” until the allegations against him and ultimately the charges made it impossible to do.

        
    
Greenberg would not comment on who posted the child support money because he says a judge has imposed a gag order.
Kelly was charged last month with 10 counts of aggravated sexual abuse pertaining to three girls and one woman. He has denied wrongdoing and pleaded not guilty.
12:50 p.m.
R&B singer briefly spoke to reporters as he left a Chicago jail after a $161,000 child support payment was made on his behalf.
He said, “I promise you, we’re going to straighten all this stuff out.” He said he couldn’t say anything more.
Kelly was freed Saturday, three days after a judge ordered him jailed until he paid the total amount of back child support that he owed.
Cook County sheriff’s spokeswoman Sophia Ansari says someone made the $161,000 payment on Saturday morning, but she didn’t know who.
Kelly was charged last month with 10 counts of aggravated sexual abuse pertaining to three girls and one woman. He has denied wrongdoing and pleaded not guilty to the charges.
12:10 p.m.
R&B singer 
R. Kelly
 has walked out of a Chicago jail after a $161,000 child support payment was made on his behalf.
Kelly was freed Saturday, three days after a judge ordered him jailed until he paid the total amount of back child support that he owed.
Kelly was charged last month with 10 counts of aggravated sexual abuse pertaining to three girls and one woman. He has denied wrongdoing and pleaded not guilty to the charges.
Kelly spent a weekend in jail after his arrest last month and wasn’t freed until a 47-year-old suburban Chicago business owner posted his $100,000 bail. At the time, his defense attorney said Kelly’s finances were “a mess.”
Kelly told “CBS This Morning” during an interview this past week that people had stolen money from his bank accounts. He offered no details.
11:30 a.m.
R&B singer R. Kelly is set to be released from a Chicago jail.
Cook County sheriff’s spokeswoman Sophia Ansari says Kelly will be released Saturday after someone paid $161,000 in back child support for him. She did not know who made the payment.
It came three days after a judge ordered Kelly jailed until he paid the total amount he owed by that date.
Kelly was charged last month with 10 counts of aggravated sexual abuse pertaining to three girls and one woman. He has denied wrongdoing and pleaded not guilty to the charges.
Kelly spent a weekend in jail after his arrest last month and wasn’t freed until a 47-year-old suburban Chicago business owner posted his $100,000 bail.
Check out the AP’s 
complete coverage
 of the investigations into R. Kelly.
