A major teachers' union has issued a warning notice about a Norfolk high school - saying its building is unsafe.
Great Yarmouth Charter Academy confirmed two separate safety incidents occurred in its science block.
The National Education Union (NEU) said staff could deem the site unsafe in accordance with health and safety legislation.
The school said it acted "quickly" to secure the building and that checks had been carried out before it reopened. 
A local representative of the NEU said it had issued a section 44 notice on Saturday 2 March - the day before the school sent a letter to reassure parents.
The union said a section 44 notice - of the Employment Rights Act 1996 - related to health and safety concerns, when a building was considered unsafe for staff to work in.
The school has not confirmed the nature of the incidents but one parent told the BBC that each had involved teachers being hurt and that no children were injured.
The parent, who did not wish to be identified, said a teacher was struck by part of a window as they tried to open it. 
They said on another occasion a ceiling tile fell, hitting a teacher.
Stephen Kearns, 59, who has a son and daughter at the school, said: "We received a letter or email about four days later saying that all necessary precautions had taken effect and all the damage had been repaired to a satisfactory standard and it was safe for the children to go in there.
"My daughter said she doesn't want to go in there because she thinks its dangerous. My son has said he doesn't want to go in there, but I told him the teachers had assured me it was safe."
Tammie Grimmer, 38, has a child who attends the school, and said: "I've not had any letters, however I don't feel comfortable with him [her son] going in there with two incidents."
In the letter sent to parents, Great Yarmouth Charter Academy said: "We want to inform you that two separate incidents occurred this week [commencing 26 February] at our school's science block.
"Please be assured that both incidents were immediately addressed, and we have taken all necessary actions to ensure that they do not happen again.
"Our top priority is always the safety and well-being of our students and staff, and we take these incidents very seriously."
The Inspiration Trust, which runs the school, said: "These were unfortunate, separate and unrelated incidents. 
"Checks to the building were carried out by our estates team, as well as independent external contractors who responded very quickly to secure the site, and gave the all-clear that the building is safe to work and learn in."
The BBC has contacted Norfolk County Council for comment.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or 0800 169 1830
