Millions around the world have been seeking refuge from the scorching sun as 
climate change
, a 
strong El Nino
 and summer in the Northern Hemisphere converge, 
toppling temperature records
. 
In Phoenix, temperatures have hit 110 degrees Fahrenheit (43 degrees Celsius) for 
around two weeks
. Volunteers are helping residents, typically hardened by the desert’s sweltering summers and insulated by air conditioning, that now need relief.
The heat in the southwestern U.S. is so extreme that health officials have recommended that people limit their outdoor exposure and 
know the warning signs of heat illness
, such as heavy sweating and dizziness. 
A woman from Niger carries her baby and a bottle of water on her head, Saturday, July 8, 2023. (AP Photo/Anis Belghoul)
In China — a nation suffering through a 
double-whammy of heat and flooding
 — people flock to waterways to cool off from temperatures as high as 100 F (38 C). On Monday, employers across the country 
were ordered to limit outdoor work
 to protect their staff from the unforgiving heat.
Europe, particularly its south, is facing 
another unrelenting heat wave
, with temperatures set to reach 113 F (45 C).
Further south in Algeria, where it was so hot last week that the country recorded its highest-ever nighttime low of 103.3 F (39.6 C) in the city of Adrar, temperatures kept soaring this week, with many carrying water through the heat of Algiers. 
Scientists warn that people will suffer through sizzling temperatures throughout the summer, and for years to come, as humans spew planet-warming gases into the atmosphere.
A woman has a break in the shade under Galata bridge on a hot summer day in Istanbul, Thursday, July 13, 2023. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco)
Ja-Veah Cheney, 9, pours water over her head, taking shelter from the sweltering heat at the splash pad station at Riverside Park in New Bedford, Mass., on July 12, 2023. (Peter Pereira/The Standard-Times via AP)
A woman enjoys the sun in the Tuileries gardens, Monday, July 10, 2023, in Paris where temperatures are expected to rise. (AP Photo/Thomas Padilla)
A little girl touches her father’s head as they are engulfed by mist from a public fountain in Bucharest, Romania, Thursday, July 13, 2023. (AP Photo/Andreea Alexandru)
Children cool off in Ein Aviel springs near the community of Aviel, Israel, Thursday, July 13, 2023. (AP Photo/Ariel Schalit)
Salvation Army volunteer Francisca Corral, center, gives water to a man at a their Valley Heat Relief Station, Tuesday, July 11, 2023 in Phoenix. (AP Photo/Matt York)
Men shower at a public beach as they take refuge from a summer heat wave in Tel Aviv, Israel on Thursday, July 13, 2023. (AP Photo/Maya Alleruzzo)
A woman uses an umbrella to take shelter from the sun as she walks in downtown Rome, Thursday, July 13, 2023. (AP Photo/Alessandra Tarantino)
Iraqi men and their sons swim in the Tigris river to beat the heat in Baghdad, Iraq, Thursday, July 13, 2023. (AP Photo/Hadi Mizban)
A man pushes a trolley with bottles of water on a hot summer day, in Istanbul, Turkey, Thursday, July 13, 2023. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco)
People spend time in a public pool in Wehrheim near Frankfurt, Germany, on a hot Saturday, July 8, 2023. (AP Photo/Michael Probst)
People walk along the Las Vegas Strip by cooling misters Thursday, July 13, 2023, in Las Vegas. (AP Photo/John Locher)
A man holds an umbrella as he and other tourists enters the ancient Acropolis hill during a heat wave, in Athens, Greece, Thursday, July 13, 2023. (AP Photo/Petros Giannakouris)
An Icelandic horse is sprayed with water at a stud farm in Wehrheim near Frankfurt, Germany, on a hot Saturday, July 8, 2023. (AP Photo/Michael Probst)
Tourists protect a sleeping child from the sun as they visit the Hollywood sign landmark in Los Angeles, Wednesday, July 12, 2023. (AP Photo/Damian Dovarganes)
A boy shows off his swimming skills while cooling off in the river Arges, outside Bucharest, Romania, Wednesday, July 12, 2023. (AP Photo/Andreea Alexandru)
A jet takes flight from Sky Harbor International Airport as the sun sets, Wednesday, July 12, 2023 in Phoenix. (AP Photo/Matt York)
Migrants stop for a water break as they walk in the Rio Grande behind concertina wire as they try to enter the U.S. from Mexico in Eagle Pass, Texas, Tuesday, July 11, 2023. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)
Youths jump into a commercial swimming pool to cool themselves off in Peshawar, Pakistan, Thursday, July 13, 2023. (AP Photo/Muhammad Sajjad)
A woman fans herself in Madrid, Spain, Monday, July 10, 2023. (AP Photo/Manu Fernandez)
A woman wearing sun protection headgear and sunglasses swims as residents cool off on a sweltering day at an urban waterway in Beijing, Monday, July 10, 2023. (AP Photo/Andy Wong)
A man cools off at a fountain during a sunny day in Belgrade, Serbia, Thursday, July 13, 2023. (AP Photo/Darko Vojinovic)
Youngsters cool off in the river Arges, outside Bucharest, Romania, Wednesday, July 12, 2023. (AP Photo/Vadim Ghirda)
A man runs along a small road on the outskirts of Frankfurt, Germany, as the sun rises early Thursday, July 13, 2023. (AP Photo/Michael Probst)

        
    
Associated Press climate and environmental coverage receives support from several private foundations. See more about AP’s climate initiative 
here
. The AP is solely responsible for all content.
