PARIS (AP) — Even 
Carlos Alcaraz
 couldn’t tell you exactly what’s been wrong with his right forearm, the part of his body that is responsible for his thunderous forehands — and also is responsible for sidelining him during nearly all of April and May as 
the French Open
 approached.
He knows this much: “I’m a little bit scared about hitting every forehand 100%.”
Alcaraz, a two-time major champion, is just one of the top players in men’s tennis who enters the year’s second Grand Slam tournament with some doubts about what form they will be in when competition begins at Roland Garros on Sunday.
Jannik Sinner
, who won the Australian Open in January, hasn’t played at all in May because of a bad hip that forced him to pull out of the Madrid Open before the quarterfinals and skip the Italian Open entirely.
Defending French Open champion 
Novak Djokovic
, he of the No. 1 ranking and 24 Grand Slam titles, had only played eight matches since January by the time he lost his second contest in Rome, so took the unusual-for-him step of entering the lower-tier Geneva Open this week to prepare on clay — and lost in the semifinals there Friday to 44th-ranked Tomas Machac.
With 14-time champion 
Rafael Nadal
 about to turn 38, just 7-4 this season after hip and abdominal injuries and no longer the near-lock for the title he used to be in Paris, it’s anyone’s guess what’ll happen over the coming two weeks.
Then again, Alcaraz is not taking anything for granted.

        
    
“It doesn’t matter (if Sinner is) coming from an injury. I think he has the capacity to come here and play in such a high level and be able to win it. Same as Rafa; same as Djokovic,” Alcaraz said. “Probably we don’t see them playing at (their) best tennis, but it’s a Grand Slam, it’s Roland Garros, and I think they have chances to win the tournament.”
As for his arm, the good news is Alcaraz says he doesn’t have discomfort.
Even if the precise nature of what’s been wrong escapes him.
“When I do the tests, when I’m talking with the doctors, my team, they explain to me what I have. ... I listen to them, but I forget,” Alcaraz said with his trademark wide smile. “What I remember is they told me that this is not going to be serious, it’s not going to take too much time. But here we are, recovering. I’m not feeling any pain in the practices when I step on the court. But I’m still thinking about it when I’m hitting forehands.”
There is a lot to like about the way 
Coco Gauff
 plays tennis, of course. That’s why she enters the French Open as the No. 3 seed and the 
reigning champion of the U.S. Open
.
It’s not all perfect, of course. And among the things Gauff has been working on lately is her serve, particularly her second serve, in order to try to avoid accumulating the high double-fault counts she’s had recently.
During the clay-court circuit that leads into the major that begins Sunday at Roland Garros, Gauff has double-faulted 92 times across 10 matches, an average of 9.2. Hardly ideal.
That total came from 45 double-faults in five matches in Rome — where she reached the semifinals before losing to eventual champion 
Iga Swiatek
 — 24 in three matches in Madrid, and 23 in two matches in Stuttgart.
How Gauff fares with that aspect of her game could affect how far she can make it this time in Paris, where the 20-year-old American was the runner-up to Swiatek in 2022.
“I have been trying to improve it with every tournament, from the start of the clay to Rome,” she said Friday.
“I feel like it’s getting better, but it’s obviously a shot that I feel is tough to change just because, when you’re tight or whatever, you kind of revert back to what you know works,” Gauff said. “Sometimes it’s tough to push yourself to do the uncomfortable things which you know in the long term are better for you.”
The first time 
Andy Murray
 and Stan Wawrinka played each other came at a Davis Cup match in 2005. Murray was 18; Wawrinka 20. When they meet each other for the 23rd time — in the first round of the French Open on Sunday — Murray will be 37 and Wawrinka 39, and each is a three-time major champion.
“I smiled at the draw, of course,” Wawrinka said Friday.
It is a showdown that would have garnered headlines when they were in their primes. Still could draw a good crowd, not so much for what both are capable of these days, but where both have been.
“Should be a brilliant atmosphere,” said Murray, who is recovering from a serious ankle injury that kept him out of action for the better part of two months.
There’s this oddity involved with the matchup: This will be the fourth consecutive French Open appearance for Murray that will feature a match against Wawrinka. Murray beat Wawrinka in the 2016 semifinals in Paris, lost to him in the 2017 semifinals, then missed the 2018 and 2019 editions, lost to Wawrinka in the first round in 2020, and did not make it to Roland Garros in 2021, 2022 or 2023.
Murray points to his five-set loss to Wawrinka seven years ago as the final match his hip could take before requiring the first of two operations.
“My hip was in so much pain. I remember, we were staying in a house near here and I remember getting up in the night because I couldn’t sleep. I was just lying on the sofa in loads of pain. Never recovered,” Murray said. “I couldn’t extend my leg behind me anymore properly after that match. It was a shame.”
Murray vs. Wawrinka in 2020 was the first time two men with Grand Slam titles faced off in the first round at Roland Garros since Yevgeny Kafelnikov against Michael Chang in 1999. They’ll do it again Sunday.
Howard Fendrich has been the AP’s tennis writer since 2002. Find his stories here: 
https://apnews.com/author/howard-fendrich
AP tennis: 
https://apnews.com/hub/tennis
