The number of different tickets available on one of Britain's busiest rail lines is being reduced in a bid to increase passenger numbers.
London North Eastern Railway (LNER) said it would be changing the fares system on the East Coast Main Line as part of a two-year trial. 
The scheme applies to journeys between London King's Cross and Newcastle, Berwick-upon-Tweed and Edinburgh.
It will come into effect from 5 February.
LNER's managing director David Horne claimed the plan was "vital in making rail travel more attractive". 
But the move has been criticised by some passengers on social media who said that removing off-peak buying options would increase fares for some.
The operator said it has cut the number of available standard class fares from seven to three.
It said its new fare, named 70min Flex, will enable passengers to travel on other LNER services up to 70 minutes before or after their booked journey.
The only other two available fares are Advance - the cheapest tickets which can only be used on a specific train - and the most expensive fully flexible Anytime tickets.
Off-Peak and Super Off-Peak fares will be removed from 5 February.
LNER said a survey by industry body the Rail Delivery Group suggested 35% of people who might travel by train are put off because they find it difficult to find the best fare.
Mr Horne said: "Customers tell us they find fares confusing," adding the pilot is part of plans "to overhaul complicated and outdated ticketing options and we look forward to hearing feedback from our customers".
LNER, which is owned by the Department for Transport, previously launched single-leg pricing, with fares around half the price of a return.
Rail minister Huw Merriman said the government was working with operators to provide passengers with "simpler and more flexible tickets".
Alex Robertson, chief executive at Transport Focus, said the watchdog looked forward to hearing how the trial progresses and will be monitoring "that it does indeed deliver better value for money".
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
