Oxford United's new stadium will be the first in the country powered solely by electricity, it has been claimed.
The club has pledged to use a low-carbon energy supply to create a sustainable stadium, with power also generated by solar panels. 
It is currently preparing a planning application for the new football ground at The Triangle, near Kidlington.
Development director Jon Clarke said it would be "one of the greenest football stadiums to be built".
The five-hectare (12-acre) site is located south of Kidlington roundabout, west of Banbury Road, east of Frieze Way and opposite Oxford Parkway Station.
The club, which has to leave its current home at the Kassam Stadium when its lease expires in 2026, released computer generated pictures of the proposed complex in October.
It now says the "state-of-the-art" stadium will not use any high carbon intensity fossil fuels, such as gas. 
Other plans include 3,000 sq m (9,842 sq ft) of solar panels on the roof, modern building fabric designs, and air source heat pumps.
Drainage systems and recycling solutions will re-use rainwater, and the club says it also aims to enhance biodiversity at the Triangle.
Oxford United recently signed the UN Sports for Climate Action Framework, and has committed to halving its carbon emissions by 2030, and achieving net-zero by 2040.
Mr Clarke said: "The standout element of the stadium is it will be the most sustainable mid-sized sports venue in the country."
He said the club wanted to "make the most of the opportunity to create something special".
"We've maximised modern technology, design and progressive thinking to create the benchmark for future design of stadiums with the protection of our planet in firm focus," he added.
Last year Oxfordshire County Council agreed a deal in principle to lease the land to the club.
Oxford United must now apply to Cherwell District Council for planning permission.
The 16,000-seater stadium would include a hotel and a conference centre.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk.
