A charity-run outdoor swimming pool has had its visitor numbers cut in half because of unseasonably poor weather. Beccles Lido in Suffolk relies on the summer trade but said downpours and low temperatures at the start of the season had had a "big impact".Manager Matt Day said its dip in revenue was compounded by energy costs sky-rocketing from £40,000 per year pre-pandemic to an estimated £175,000 this year. "We rely on our income to keep open and keep staff employed, so it's been a real struggle," he added.
"At long last we have some sun, but it's been very late to appear," he said. "We hope we can catch up a bit."It's a heated pool, so it's fine once you're in there, but the forecast has kept people away - the northerly winds and the rain that seems to come from nowhere."We need clear blue sky, then people book and it's the escape from the daily routine. "It's like being on holiday when we have the nice hot weather."Compared to this time last year, visitor numbers are down 50%, and 60% compared with the warm, sunny start to the summer in 2022, Mr Day said.He also believes the rises in the cost of living means people are less likely to fork out on a trip to the pool."Families are still feeling the pinch and looking to spend less on luxuries, and unfortunately we fall into the luxury category," he added."It can get expensive to do activities and that could be a reason we are getting fewer visitors that previous years."He hopes the pool's "excruciating" energy costs will be alleviated by new solar panels, which are yet to be fitted but could generate up to three-quarters of the site's electricity.
Another outdoor attraction which relies on good weather said its takings had also nosedived -  by 50% compared with this time in 2023.Ray Smith, who owns and runs the Oasis Camel Centre in Halesworth, said its animals sought shelter in the rain meaning it could not offer camel rides on wet ground.  "We have had multiple problems this year," he added."The weather has been the main factor, but we have had lots of different roadworks and road closures, which are sending people 20 miles out of the way."All the school holidays have been disastrous, and that's when we get our income."
Follow Suffolk news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
