Three sheep were killed when six were attacked by a dog running loose in a country park.
Bosses at Cuerden Valley Park in Lancashire said the incident could cost thousands of pounds as breeding would be affected.
It is feared ewes will not carry their lambs to term due to the stress of the attack.
Park chief executive Andrew Suter said the lurcher dog could have been shot if the farmer had seen what was happening.
Five ewes and a ram were attacked in a section of the park, near Clayton-le-Woods, just before Christmas. Three days later a second dog, am Alsatian, chased ewes around another field for 40 minutes.
Mr Suter said the first attack was "horrific".
"The sheep don't fight back. In one case an ear was torn and there were lots of facial injuries because dogs tend to go for the mouth which is horrid," he said.
"Three died and we think more will."
He added: "The owner actually stayed and talked to the farmer and was completely distraught."
But he said the owner's response was "similar to many others". 
"It's the same explanation I've heard repeatedly," he said. 
"My dog has never done it before, I didn't know he would do it. 
"People don't know how their dogs will react. Dogs act on instinct and the best way to protect the dogs and the livestock is to put the dog on a lead."
Notices are being posted in the two areas where livestock breeding takes place warning owners to keep their dog on a lead.
Park bosses also plan to create a fenced exercise area where owners can let their dogs run free. 
Mr Suter said legally dog owners can be fined and their pets destroyed following attacks on livestock.
He added: "Unfortunately we are into that territory where thousands of pounds of damage was caused.
"Farmers are allowed to shoot dogs. None of our farmers want to do that but if the farmer had been in the field when the attacks took place the dog would have been shot."
Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook, X and Instagram? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
