Sizewell C in Suffolk has been granted a nuclear site licence, a step described as a "huge milestone" for the planned power plant.
The Office for Nuclear Regulation (ONR) issued the licence after it said "outstanding matters" had been resolved. 
Funding for the project still needs to be secured, with a final investment decision due in 2024. 
Campaigners said they were "appalled" and safety matters remain "unresolved". 
According to the ONR the granting of the licence was a "significant step" but does not mean "nuclear-related construction" can start.
The regulator said the two issues that had been resolved "related to the shareholders' agreement and ownership of land at the site". 
Sizewell C will now have to ask permission to start future construction and commissioning stages. 
Mina Golshan, Sizewell C's safety, security and assurance director, said: "Securing a nuclear site licence is a show of confidence from our nuclear regulator that we have a suitable site, that we can achieve a safe design replicated from Hinkley Point C, and that we have a capable organisation ready to begin major construction work. 
"It's a huge milestone and demonstrates that this project is firmly on track."
The government has invested billions of pounds in Sizewell C. Andrew Bowie, Minister for Nuclear and Renewables, said: "Sizewell C will be the cornerstone of the UK's clean energy transition, supplying six million homes with green energy for decades.
"Obtaining a nuclear site licence is a significant achievement and should instil further confidence from investors - bringing us another step closer towards reaching a final investment decision this year." 
Alison Downes, from the campaign group Stop Sizewell C, said:"Stop Sizewell C is appalled that a nuclear site licence has been issued when matters critical to the future safety of the site remain unresolved. 
"There isn't even a final design of the sea defences, which will be necessary to keep this vulnerable site safe for the next century and a half, at the very least. 
"This seems to us like kicking the can down the road, on the assumption that some future generation will be able to clear up the mess." 
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
