TAMPA, Fla. (AP) — Mark Stone scored the winner in the seventh round of a shootout and the Vegas Golden Knights beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 3-2 after blowing a two-goal lead in the third period Saturday night.
Robin Lehner stopped 27 shots for the Golden Knights, including 18 combined in the third period and overtime. Brett Howden and William Carrier both had a goal and an assist.
Vegas won the shootout 4-3 and finished 2-1-1 on a challenging road trip. Before the game, coach Pete DeBoer said “we’re seeing the best of the best” on a trip that also included stops at Washington, Carolina and Florida.
“We’re really proud of our group,” DeBoer said. “Five out of eight points against these teams.” 
Ross Colton and Corey Perry scored in the third period for the Lightning. Andrei Vasilevskiy made 25 saves.
“This is the first time I’ve seen this team in how many years, a couple years?” Tampa Bay coach Jon Cooper said. “I learned that they’re really good, and I learned that we’re good.”
Golden Knights center Chandler Stephenson and defenseman Dylan Coghlan were placed in COVID-19 protocols before the game. Stephenson has a team-best 38 points on 12 goals and 26 assists.
Colton scored at 13:12 of the third just after Tampa Bay’s third power play of the period ended. Perry tied it at 2 with 2:48 left with Vasilevskiy on the bench for an extra skater. The veteran forward sent the puck from behind the net and it went off a Vegas player and past Lehner.

        
    
The Lightning outshot Vegas 17-1 in the third. Both teams had three shots on goal in overtime.
Howden opened the scoring on a low-slot rebound 5:25 into the game. Carrier made it 2-0 with 5:04 left in the second.
“For us to kind of come out on top on this road trip, I think that’s a big statement for us,” Howden said.
Lehner stopped Colton on a breakaway and made a post-to-post save on Steven Stamkos in the second. Colton had six shots on goal, and Stamkos finished with five.
“It’s a big point for us,” Lehner said. “We’re all battling.”
Vasilevskiy made a number of strong saves during the first period as Tampa Bay was outshot 12-4. He also stymied Stone, who was left alone in the low slot in the second.
Vegas had a 23-9 shots advantage through two periods.
Lightning star right wing Nikita Kucherov (COVID-19 protocols) sat out his second consecutive game and it is unclear if he will return for the final game before the All-Star break on Tuesday night.
“Hope for Tuesday but again you never know with these situations what’s going to happen,” Cooper said. “So, I can’t sit here and say anything definitive.”
Lightning defenseman Mikhail Sergachev was OK after taking a shot off the side of his helmet by Vegas’ Reilly Smith midway through the second. Sergachev lost his stick behind the net but slid into the slot for the shot block.
It was Stone’s first shootout attempt this season. He is 3 for 13 overall. ... Carrier ended a 14-game goal drought. … Vegas is 13-6-1 on the road. … Tampa Bay is 11-2-1 in its last 14 home games. ... The Lightning had 14 shots blocked and missed the net on 16 more. ... DeBoer is four wins from becoming the 28th NHL coach to reach 500.
Golden Knights: Play at home against Buffalo on Tuesday night.
Lightning: Host the San Jose Sharks on Tuesday night.
More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
