Political parties are making "unbelievable" tax promises ahead of the election and this is creating confusion for businesses, the boss of a glass company has said."It gives this uncertainty - and there’s nothing more damaging than uncertainty for business," said Alan Taylor, managing director of Mi Glass.The glass processor and manufacturer is based, by coincidence, on a road called Downing Street, a hub for industries in Smethwick in the West Midlands.The BBC’s Your Voice Your Vote series is asking people to share what issues will matter most to them in the general election on 4 July.
The Conservative government’s manifesto includes pledges to cut National Insurance  and freeze rates of income tax, VAT, and corporation tax. The Labour party has said it will not raise these four tax rates.The Institute for Fiscal Studies, a think-tank, warned last week that the two main parties were engaging in a "conspiracy of silence", as it would be hard to avoid tax rises over the next five years.
Other parties have also made tax pledges in their manifestos. The Liberal Democrats' pledges include raising the threshold where workers must start paying income tax "when the public finances allow", as well as reversing some recent tax cuts for big banks.The Green Party said it would not increase the basic rate of income tax, which applies to workers who earn £12,571-£50,270, and it would introduce a wealth tax and a carbon tax. Reform UK said it would increase the threshold for income tax and cut corporation tax, among other measures."We feel as though [politicians are] giving us many unbelievable electioneering promises," Mr Taylor said."The reality is likely to vastly differ from what they're promising now."He added that energy policy was another area where businesses wanted more clarity and detail from the parties, "because our energy bills are just going up and up and up".
Poll tracker: How do the parties compare?Voting: Who can I vote for in the general election?General election 2024: All BBC stories and analysisYour Voice, Your Vote: Tell us the issues that matter to you
Mr Taylor and his colleagues also said they wanted the next government to provide better support for young people in Smethwick."There’s no community centres or anything for them to do, apart from hang about in the streets," said Gail Sprigg, a customer services manager at Mi Glass, who added that crime and anti-social behaviour were getting worse in the area.Ms Sprigg called for more funding to allow schools to put on activities for pupils.She also echoed Mr Taylor's concern that politicians were not being honest with voters."They can’t seem to give anybody a straight answer and that really grates on me," she said."What I’d like is, for whoever gets in, is to be straight and honest and true to the people who have voted them in."
What really matters to you in this general election? What is the one issue that will influence your vote? Click the button below to submit your idea, and it could be featured on the BBC.
Follow BBC Wolverhampton & Black Country on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
