Sydney Wood After a long fight against cancer, Sydney D Wood, 70, of Pocatello Idaho passed away peacefully on November 5, 2018 in his Pocatello home surrounded by his wife and children. Syd was born in Pocatello ID in 1948, the third of six kids to George D and Viola Stucki Wood, and was raised in Inkom and Mink Creek. He graduated Pocatello High class of 1966. His strong work ethic was apparent from a young age, taking on many odd jobs as a young man and starting his first formal employment at Albertsons when he was 14yrs old. He used that money to buy his first vehicle, a 1949 Chevy. After graduating, Syd enrolled in the US Navy and served in Vietnam. In 1970 he met and fell in love with Barbara Baird of Carey ID and they were married in the Idaho Falls Temple in 1971. Other than a couple years spent in Twin Falls ID, they have lived happily in Pocatello their entire marriage and felt it was a wonderful place to raise their children. Syd and Barb started Wood Construction in 1985, later partnering with Randy and Kris Stewart until Syd retired in 2015. They built over 300 homes in the Pocatello area during that time and developed several subdivisions. Through the years, Syd built many close relationships with subcontractors and other builders, as well as mentoring several young builders as they began their building careers. His integrity, honesty and work ethic showed in all his interactions both professional and personal. Syd’s guiding principle was simple … LOVE. And anyone who knew him, felt his genuine love shine through in their experience with him. He had a way of making each of us know that we were his favorite. Syd was always involved in his church and community. He held many church positions over the years, including bishop, counselor, stake missionary, high priest group leader. He loved working with the scouts and was a generous donor to The Friends of Scouting campaigns. Syd was instrumental in renewing and maintaining the work of the Southeast Idaho Builders Association and served the organization for nearly 30 years. He served others in simple ways too, generously donating his time, talents, tools and truck to help with whatever tasks family, friends and neighbors needed to be done. Syd was especially compassionate about the needs and circumstances of veterans and helped as often as he could in small and large ways, whether by heartfelt conversations with homeless vets on his way to and from treatment at the Vet Center in SLC or through financial contributions to both individuals and organizations. Deeply patriotic, Syd’s tremendous love for country was forged during his own military service and continued on in the decades since. He continued to demonstrate that patriotism through active participation in various political and civic engagements; showing his love and respect for active service men and women every Friday as he faithfully wore red to honor military and law enforcement. The weeks before passing, he made sure to remind Barb to apply for his absentee ballot so he could vote in the 2018 election. Syd’s hobbies included fishing, hunting and carving beautiful duck decoys. There are 230 of his hand carved duck decoys in the world, and he has developed great friendships across the nation through this hobby. Syd traveled frequently with Barb, with his family and friends. He loved taking road trips to explore this beautiful nation he loved, as well as visiting further away places such as Alaska, Hawaii, Tahiti, the Philippines, Australia and New Zealand. He has left behind many fond memories in all those who shared these experiences with him. Syd is lovingly remembered by his wife Barbara, his children and their spouses, Brad Wood of Charlotte NC, Andrea Wood and Jonathan Quigley of Friday Harbor WA, Robin and Ted Karren of Smithfield UT, and Josh and Ashley Wood of Layton Utah, and his beautiful grandchildren, Logan, Emmy, Cooper, Drake, Sydney, Capri, Stella, Ian, and Goldie, by his siblings and in-laws Alan and Leanne Wood of Las Vegas NV, Lea Wood and Robert Hemmert, Donald and Shauna Wood, Sheri and Dan Kunkel, Teresa and Efrain Velasquez, all of Pocatello, and Rusty and Carolyn Baird of Bellevue ID, his father in law Donald Baird of Twin Falls ID and by numerous nieces, nephews and extended family and dear friends. He is preceded in death by his older brother Steven, his mother-in-law Nettie, and his parents George and Viola. Funeral services will be held Saturday, November 17, at 11am in the LDS Ward Chapel, 2000 S. Fairway Dr., Pocatello. Family will receive friends Friday evening from 6-8 pm in the Cornelison Funeral Home, 431 N. 15th Ave., and one hour prior to services Saturday in the church. Memorial donations in memory of Syd can be made to the Idaho Food Bank, an organization he and Barb often volunteered for and donated to. Condolences may be sent to the family online at www.cornelisonfh.com 208-232-0542
