A 27-year-old Madison man pleaded guilty and received an eight-year sentence Monday for shooting an acquaintance multiple times during a drug deal last year.
Gregory Howard was sentenced in Dane County Circuit Court to five years in prison and three years of extended supervision exactly one year after he shot the then-37-year-old male victim multiple times in the face and back over a dispute involving money the victim allegedly owed him.
Howard, who is already serving three and a half years in prison for armed robbery, said he was sorry for the “pain and agony” he caused the victim and his family. He said he would spend his time in prison working to show people he’s not a bad person.
“It’s not right, what I did,” he said at Tuesday’s plea and sentencing hearing. “I really wish I made a better decision.”
Howard shot the man over an alleged $20 debt July 2 on the South Side near Moorland and Rimrock roads while the man tried to buy marijuana from Howard.
After being shot, the man was able to drive himself to a McDonald’s restaurant on Fish Hatchery Road in Fitchburg. He ultimately needed multiple surgeries.
Howard’s attorney, Michael Covey, said his client lost control of his temper during the drug deal. He said Howard is remorseful, accepts responsibility for the shooting and has worked hard behind bars to make himself a better man.
Assistant District Attorney Jessica Miller said that Howard committed a serious crime that included targeting his victim.

        
    
“This was a drug deal that went bad,” she said. She said the victim was aware of negotiations to resolve the case and had “weighed in.”
Prosecutors originally charged Howard with attempted first-degree intentional homicide.
But prosecutors and Covey agreed to allow him to plead guilty to a reduced charge of first-degree reckless injury and asked Circuit Court Judge Nicholas McNamara to agree to an eight-year sentence.
Miller said Howard’s guilty plea to a lesser charge was in the best interest of the victim because it would be difficult for the victim to be an effective witness during Howard’s trial. The victim was recently found incompetent to stand trial for crimes he’s accused of in an unrelated case.
McNamara said Howard was “lucky” the victim didn’t die, saying it was difficult to imagine him only spending five years in prison for the shooting.
“I hope we’re protecting the public here,” he said. “If you really have learned from this ... then five years is perhaps enough.”
Howard’s criminal history includes felony convictions for armed robbery, forgery and taking and driving a vehicle without consent.
He has misdemeanor convictions for violating domestic abuse orders, disorderly conduct and trespassing.
