A father who has finished the last of 46 half-marathons dressed as Superman in memory of his son says he feels "absolutely amazing".Thomas Young's son Jaxon died in May 2023 at six-weeks-old while being treated in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) at St Michael's Hospital in Bristol.Mr Young set out to complete 46 half-marathons in 46 weeks in 2023 in memory of Jaxon, and has raised more than £9,000 in the process.After finishing his final half marathon on Tuesday outside the hospital his son was cared for, Mr Young told the BBC "words can't describe it".
Mr Young has run more than 600 miles to fundraise for Cots for Tots, the dedicated charity for the NICU.The hospital's NICU Neonatal Intensive Care Unit cares for more than 800 babies a year, from those born as early as 23 weeks to babies requiring life-saving treatment when they are born.
Mr Young finished the half marathon on St Michael's Hill - one of the steepest roads in Bristol.He said: "I didn't think I would get to this point. "That last bit was the one that was playing on my mind the most, but with everyone's support it did help me get up this dreaded hill."Words can't describe it. All the money that's been raised will hopefully help everyone that has to use Cots for Tots. Even if it was expected or unexpected, the money will go a long way."He added that he will "rest of a while" and "possibly think of another challenge" to raise money.
Kate Jones, senior community fundraising manager at Tots for Cots, said: "It's been so emotional. "Tom obviously started his challenge 46 weeks ago, it's been amazing following him on this journey. "To see him do his final 46th run today is incredible. He's amazing."Emma Stuart, senior staff nurse at the St Michael's neo-natal intensive care unit, said: "It's going to go a massive way. "Anything is a great help. It will help the parents to make their journey a bit easier as well."
Follow BBC Bristol on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
