TAMPA, Fla. (AP) — The Latest on the Tampa Bay Lightning’s front office shake-up (all times local):
4:25 p.m.
Steve Yzerman says he’s “100 percent committed” to the Tampa Bay Lightning this season after stepping down as general manager and moving to a senior adviser role.
Yzerman says he decided in late July not to sign another contract to be GM and that it took until now to formulate a plan on what’s next for the front office. Longtime assistant Julien BriseBois takes over effective immediately, two days before the Lightning open training camp.
Asked about his future, Yzerman says he’ll see how the season goes before making any other decisions.
4:15 p.m.
New Tampa Bay Lightning general manager Julien BriseBois says the team is “business as usual” going into training camp after he was elevated to replace Steve Yzerman.
BriseBois says the cast of characters executing the organization’s long-term plan hasn’t changed other than he and Yzerman switching roles. BriseBois has been Yzerman’s right-hand man and assistant GM since they came to Tampa Bay in 2010.
Owner Jeff Vinik says the Lightning are lucky no other NHL team has hired BriseBois as GM.
4:05 p.m.
Tampa Bay Lightning owner Jeff Vinik announced that Steve Yzerman is moving on to a new role in the organization with longtime assistant Julien BriseBois taking over as general manager.
Yzerman says he’s becoming a senior adviser to BriseBois and the remainder of the front office. At a news conference at Amalie Arena, Yzerman says the decision allows him to spend more time with his family and that BriseBois is “more than ready” to succeed him.

        
    
Yzerman, who oversaw the Lightning for an eight-year tenure that included a trip to the 2015 Stanley Cup Final, added he looks forward to working under BriseBois.
1:40 p.m.
In a stunning turn of events on the eve of training camp, Steve Yzerman is stepping down as general manager of the Tampa Bay Lightning after building them into a perennial contender.
A person with knowledge of the move said Tuesday that Yzerman is leaving his post and will be replaced immediately by longtime assistant Julien BriseBois. The person spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the team had not announced Yzerman’s decision. The team was expected to hold a news conference later Tuesday.
Yzerman’s move comes days before the Lightning open training camp following a trip to the Eastern Conference final. Yzerman spent the past eight seasons as Tampa Bay’s GM, a tenure that included five playoff appearances, three trips to the conference final and an appearance in the 2015 Stanley Cup Final.
Follow AP Hockey Writer Stephen Whyno on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/SWhyno
More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/tag/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
