A wildlife trust has launched a campaign to stop part of a proposed nature reserve in Derbyshire being sold for housing.
Plans for the entire former Pewit Golf Course in Ilkeston to become a £500,000 nature reserve were given the go-ahead by Erewash Borough Council in 2023.
Derbyshire Wildlife Trust is unhappy as seven acres are now set to be built on.
The council said if a "small part" is disposed of, it means the vast majority will remain a public open space.
A recent council report stated "planning permission, whilst informal at present, would likely be forthcoming" for the building of houses.
Scott Blance, from the trust, said this means the nature reserve will lose about a quarter of its land.
The council says Pewit Golf Course consists of almost 25 acres of land - it is proposed at least 17.4 acres will be dedicated to the new nature reserve, and up to seven acres are earmarked for sale.
The trust has accused the council of making a "U-turn" and is asking councillors to vote against these proposals at a public meeting on 15 February. 
It has also launched a campaign urging residents to "defend nature and take back space for people to enjoy" by contacting councillors asking for the decision to be revoked.
Mr Blance said: "We need to make more space for nature, not remove what little we have left. The council has already authorised the sale of 10 pieces of green space in Ilkeston.
"This latest development would remove yet more from the area, disproportionately targeting residents and local services."
He added: "A public consultation found that residents were overwhelmingly in favour of the original plans drawn up by ecologists.
"This scheme ignores the wishes of local people and, given the council's stated commitment to the environment and original design for the site, is an unacceptable loss of space for nature." 
James Dawson, Erewash Borough Council leader, has offered to meet the trust.
He said: "We are determined to preserve these much-loved sanctuaries for future generations. This includes safeguarding our precious green belt.
"If it is the case that a small part of Pewit is disposed of it still means the vast majority of the land will remain a public open space for residents to enjoy as they get close to nature."
Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk.
