A Singapore court has sentenced a Japanese man to jail and caning for the "brutal and cruel" rape of a university student in 2019.The 38-year-old hairdresser, Ikko Kita, is set to be the first Japanese national to be caned in the city state, the Japanese embassy in Singapore told BBC News.He will be caned 20 times and also jailed for 17 and a half years. Caning is a controversial but widely used form of corporal punishment in Singapore, and is compulsory for offences like vandalism, robbery and drug trafficking.
According to court documents, Kita met the woman at Clarke Quay, a popular nightlife district, in December 2019.The woman, who was then 20, had not known Kita before. She was intoxicated when he took her to his flat and raped her.He also filmed the act on his mobile phone and later sent it to a friend.The victim managed to leave the apartment afterwards and reported the rape to police later that day. Kita was arrested on the same day and has been in police custody since.Police found two videos of the rape on his mobile phone.Justice Aedit Abdullah called the assault "brutal and cruel", adding that the victim was "vulnerable, clearly drunk, and incapable of looking after herself".The judge also dismissed the defence's argument that the victim had allegedly given an initial indication of consent to sex. The sentencing has been widely reported in Japan and has also been trending on social media. Some users have expressed shock at the use of caning in modern Singapore, though there have also been some celebrating the sentence. One said that "in Japan, when it comes to sexual assault, society and the police make victims feel guilty, and the punishment is far too lenient". Singapore says caning acts as a deterrent to violent crime, though some rights groups say there is no clear evidence of this.Caning in Singapore involves being struck with a wooden stick on the back of the thigh, which can leave permanent scars.According to rights group the Transformative Justice Collective, the cane measures about 1.5m (4.9ft) and not more than 1.27cm in diameter. The practice drew international attention in 1994 when 19-year-old US citizen Michael Fay was given six strokes of the cane for vandalism.Despite an appeal from US President Bill Clinton, Singapore authorities went ahead with the caning but gave Fay a reduced number of strokes.
