People in some parts of Wales have been urged to stay indoors due to flooding caused by Storm Babet.
Natural Resources Wales issued 17 flood warnings and 22 flood alerts, while a yellow weather warning remains across many areas until 06:00 BST on Saturday.
Dyfed-Powys Police said there were multiple reports of stranded cars.
Bus and train services have also been hit, with some routes in north Wales and north-west England having to close.
Denbighshire and Powys councils urged people not to travel unless it was absolutely necessary.
A councillor from Llandudno Conwy, said residents living in the town's St Andrew's Avenue had to be evacuated and were being put up at a "rest centre" by a housing association.
Powys council said it had been "hit hard", with roads becoming impassable because of the waters. 
A spokesman: "Storm Babet has had a major impact in the county with roads impassable due to flooding and some towns and villages being cut off due to flood water."
Dyfed-Powys Police urged people not to drive through floods, saying it had received multiple reports of vehicles stranded on roads around Newtown, Welshpool, Llanidloes and Llandinam. 
"Only travel if your journey is essential," a spokesman said.
The rain and floods forced many schools in mid and north Wales to close, with 54 wholly or partially closing. 
Of 54 schools that closed, 52 were in Flintshire. Many were flooded and one had no electricity.
Scottish Power said there were power cuts in Mold, Flintshire, from 08:00 BST but that things were back to normal by 10:15.
Because of heavy flooding at Swindon, all train services from London Paddington to south Wales have been suspended.
The rain also caused disruption on roads as flooding caused a traffic build-up on five major roads.
North Wales Fire Service said there had been more than 60 flood reports.
Some were in Flintshire, in places like Mold, and as well as in Denbigh, Prestatyn, St Asaph and Rhyl, in Denbighshire.
Mid and West Wales Fire Service said the floods were keeping them "extremely busy".
It said call outs included cars stuck in water and warned drivers entering floods could be dangerous.
Mold pastor, Ben Midgley, said parts of the town were "quite susceptible to flooding".
He added: "This is second time since 2020 that we've had a significant flood. We've had people evacuated from their properties.
"Some of them are going to be out of their properties probably for weeks."
He described firefighters using boat teams to rescue people. 
Mr Midgley said: "Obviously, you can imagine how upset and depressed people are being pulled out of their properties, sometimes for the second time in a couple of years. 
"You know, our hearts go out to them at this time. But there are people helping in that regard and just here just keeping a warm atmosphere."
Trains have also been affected, including all lines between Chester and Crewe, Wrexham Central and Bidston, and Hooton and both Chester and Ellesmere Port.
Some lines are also blocked between Crewe and Shrewsbury.
Arriva buses said Chester and Flintshire services had been suspended until further notice, except for service number 11 which was operating a limited diverted service.
Police warned drivers to be careful after receiving multiple reports of roads affected by flooding.
These include the M4, A55 and multiple other main roads. 
Additional reporting by Chris Wood
