CLAIM: Anheuser-Busch is closing half of its U.S. breweries following backlash over a Bud Light marketing initiative.
AP’S ASSESSMENT: False. The claim stems from a website that publishes satirical content. No such widespread brewery closure has been announced by Anheuser-Busch and a spokesperson for the company confirmed that the claim is false.
THE FACTS: Blog posts claiming that Bud Light’s parent company is closing half of its breweries in the U.S. have spread widely across social media in recent days, 
following the brand’s partnership
 with a transgender influencer and subsequent calls for boycotts by some prominent conservatives.
One such blog post features the headline: “Anheuser Busch Closing Half Of Its Breweries In The US After ‘Worst Goof In Marketing History’.” The post, which circulated widely on Facebook, went on to claim that the company is “shuttering 5 plants across the country” and that more than 20,000 jobs will be lost.
But the claim is fabricated, an Anheuser-Busch spokesperson confirmed in an email to The Associated Press. It was first published by a website that is part of a network of websites called America’s Last Line of Defense, which publish satirical content that is frequently mistaken as real. The website’s about page states: “Everything on this website is fiction. It is not a lie and it is not fake news because it is not real.” 
The blog post features other indicators that it is satirical. It quotes a “Joe Barron” as Anheuser-Busch’s supposed vice president of Bud Light, but no such individual is listed on the company’s 
online leadership page
. America’s Last Line of Defense 
frequently
 uses the 
same name
 in its satirical posts. The post’s author is listed as “Flagg Eagleton,” and it describes the supposed research for the article as “professionalistic journalisticating.”

        
    
The AP has previously reported on other false claims stemming from the same network of sites, such as a 
fictional move
 by Oktoberfest to ban Budweiser products and the 
fabricated resignation
 of the CEO of Anheuser-Busch following the backlash to Bud Light’s partnership with Dylan Mulvaney, a transgender social media influencer.
Mulvaney, who is known for her popular series 
on TikTok
 documenting her gender transition, first posted a sponsored Instagram reel promoting Bud Light in early April, 
the AP reported
. The video was met with transphobic commentary from conservative social media personalities, who attacked the company for supposedly turning to “woke” advertising. The backlash 
did 
hurt sales in April
, and Anheuser-Busch 
confirmed
 that two of its top marketing executives are taking a leave of absence. 
Anheuser-Busch did not immediately respond to the AP’s request for comment.
This story has been updated to include comment from a Anheuser-Busch spokesperson.
This is part of AP’s effort to address widely shared misinformation, including work with outside companies and organizations to add factual context to misleading content that is circulating online. 
Learn more about fact-checking at AP.
