A woman who left school with no qualifications has achieved her dream of becoming a doctor. Dr Becs Bradford, who was in care as a child and did not sit her first GCSE until the age of 35, has graduated from the University of Bristol with a degree in medicine. The 41-year-old said she can draw on her own life experiences to understand patients well, and wants to help others from "non-traditional backgrounds" to achieve their goals. “I just had an inner knowing that this is what I’m meant to do with my life,” said Dr Bradford. 
Dr Bradford, who is originally from Coventry, was placed into care at the age of 12 after her father, Richard, was left paralysed in an accident and the family lost their home.She worked as cabin crew, a personal trainer and in sales but her ambition was always to become a doctor. Aged 35, Dr Bradford bought GCSE revision books and studied independently to achieve her maths and science qualifications. She enrolled on an access to medicine course, and drove a six-hour round trip to attend lessons while juggling three jobs. After facing several rejections from universities she secured a place in Bristol and throughout her studies taught gym classes and worked nursing shifts.
Dr Bradford said: “When I was young I was constantly told I would amount to nothing, that I was stupid.“I got sick of people telling me I couldn’t do things because I was a care leaver. "I wanted to prove that people like me do deserve good things, that they can get jobs that are fulfilling and well-paid."
Dr Bradford said she wanted to be a role model for people from similar backgrounds and that graduating had felt "surreal" and "like a dream come true". "I really believe that if your heart is in it, you can 100% do the crazy things you’ve always dreamed of," she said."I'm proud of myself for never giving up along the way and I hope my journey can inspire others to follow their hearts in the same way."Prof Tansy Jessop, from the University of Bristol, said: “Becs has achieved so much, and so often against the odds.“Becs is not only inspirational, but her story shows the transformative power of education."
Follow BBC Bristol on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
