Latest Star Wars TV series The Acolyte proves that the Force is strong in Wales - after pivotal scenes were shot across Bannau Brycheiniog.Starring Amandla Stenberg and Lee Jung-jae, the new Star Wars show brought a glimpse of sci-fi action to the national park - also known as the Brecon Beacons - as well as the south Wales valleys as the production spread across several locations in the country."We shot a lot in Wales," said showrunner Leslye Headland. "What was incredible about Wales was that, you know, you could shoot in a beautiful wooded area, but then if you moved up further, you’d be in snow."Welcoming both Jedi and other Force users, Wales has officially become part of the galaxy far, far away for the very first time.
"We wanted for the cast to feel transported to literally different planets," said Ms Headland.So where can you find the futuristic locations of The Acolyte in Wales?
A small, empty lot to the west of Trago Mills in Merthyr Tydfil was used during The Acolyte.Several fields opposite the Welsh branch of the UK department store were used for filming, with production trailers setting up in a nearby vacant lot.It’s unknown whether any Wookiees popped in for a Welsh cake at Bakestones.
Much of The Acolyte’s Welsh filming was for the scenes on Brendok – the mysterious planet that spawned the Force-sensitive twins, Osha and Mae, played by Lauren and Leah Brady.A flashback in episode three reveals the young twins playing under a Bunta Tree, with Taf Fechan stepping in for the forests of Brendok that surround them.The Welsh countryside can be seen extensively throughout the series, with Taf Fechan forest used frequently for scenes set on Brendok.
A drained reservoir in Bannau Brycheiniog was the site of the Jedi ship in episode three.Upper Neuadd Reservoir is currently empty, but once helped to provide potable water to the Merthyr Tydfil area.The site provides an excellent clearing to play host to a Jedi landing site, and it’s where Osha and Mae encounter the Wookiee Jedi master, Kelnacca, as he fixes up a speeder.You can spot its distinctive treeline in the background during these scenes.
Adjacent to the reservoir itself, the Upper Neuadd Dam was also in The Acolyte.The dam was built sometime between 1896 and 1902, and is situated on the south side of the now-drained reservoir.A robed figure can be seen scaling an ancient-looking wall in the official trailer – that’s Upper Neuadd Dam, and it was seemingly chosen with a specific aesthetic in mind.
"You have to remember that they weren’t at war in the middle of the Roman Empire," said production designer, Kevin Jenkins. "What Rome looked like at 400 B.C. as compared to 5 A.D. was not the same, so we took that approach with creating an older, more peaceful version of the galaxy than we’ve seen so far."The scenes come from episode seven with Sol, played by Lee Jung-jae, scaling the dam.
The Acolyte is available now on Disney+ with the series finale to air on 16 July, 2024.
