WASHINGTON (AP) — The House Ethics Committee said Monday it is extending separate ethics investigations into actions by two veteran congressmen who were re-elected last week, Democrat Bobby Rush of Illinois and Republican Ed Whitfield of Kentucky.
In separate inquires, a congressional review panel said it has found “substantial reason to believe” that Whitfield and Rush violated House rules.
The independent Office of Congressional Ethics said in a report released Monday that Whitfield likely violated House rules by allowing his wife to use his congressional office as part of her lobbying activities on issues related to animal welfare. The ethics office said Rush likely violated House rules by accepting free office space in Chicago that was used by his campaign.
Rush was elected to a 12th term last week representing the Chicago area, while Whitfield was elected to an 11th term in western Kentucky.
Under House rules, the ethics committee can continue an investigation into a new Congress as long as the lawmaker being reviewed continues to serve. It was not clear Monday if the ethics panel will extend the Rush and Whitfield inquiries beyond next month.
In a statement Monday, Rush said he remains hopeful that the Ethics Committee will work with him on “a mutually agreeable resolution” to the investigation and will take into account his cooperation from the outset.

        
    
Whitfield, for his part, said it was unfortunate that political opponents — in this case, the Tennessee Walking Horse industry — filed an ethics complaint against him rather than work to defeat a bill Whitfield co-sponsored to regulate the industry. The bill would ban a practice known as “soring” that manipulates a walking horse to produce an exaggerated, high-stepping gait. Whitfield’s wife, Constance Harriman Whitfield, is a lobbyist for the Humane Society Legislative Fund and worked with her husband on the bill.
“It is unfortunate that this group of people have resorted to these types of tactics because they cannot win their argument based on the evidence and facts related to the horrific practice of soring over the past 50 years,” Whitfield said.
The ethics office, in its report, said Constance Whitfield repeatedly contacted her husband’s staff on behalf of the bill and used his congressional office as a base of operations to support the bill. Both actions are against House rules.
The investigative report said Rush accepted free use of the Chicago office for nearly 20 years, mainly as a sort of backup campaign office. Staffers use the office occasionally to make telephone calls, hold meetings and distribute campaign material, particularly on Election Day. A lawyer representing Rush said the office, which Rush used when he was a Chicago alderman, was in a shopping center surrounded by vacant space. Rush arguably added value to the building by “showing some sign of usage,” lawyers Scott Thomas and Jen Carrier in a letter to the Ethics Committee.
The outside office recommended dismissal of a related complaint concerning donations Rush’s campaign made to a Chicago church that later employed his son. The donations did not occur while his son worked there, the report said.
