There is no set procedure to save a nursery attached to an Aberdeenshire school set to be mothballed, parents have been told. A meeting at Tullynessle School was told on 1 May about the temporary closure due to the school roll being projected to fall below eight next term.The nursery has 20 children and parents say they were not consulted, with many left in tears by the news.Aberdeenshire Council said the decision was made to safeguard the "educational and social wellbeing" of the pupils. Council policy delegates the decision to mothball to the director of education with no chance for parents or councillors to have a say.Last year, that procedure was branded "undemocratic".  
A meeting of nursery parents at Tullynessle School was told despite high and increasing attendance numbers, the early years setting also needed to close due to the school head teacher departing. Silvia Hufstetler, one of the affected parents, said: "The nursery right now is at 75% capacity and is due to be at 100% by the end of the calendar year, so we asked why the nursery figures have no relevance in the decision. "They just said the primary takes precedence and they weren't prepared to stop and think about a solution."All that comes with this is having an extreme toll on my personal life."Parents at Tullynessle were told there is a deadline of 15 May to get the school roll above eight once again, before the mothballing set for August.Families who were at the meeting said they were told by council officers that this was the first time a school with a nursery had been mothballed. 
A campaign group has been set up by parents to save the setting with concerns also voiced about the travel distances to alternative sites being offered.Another affected parent, Emily Carter, said:  "This really has distracted me from everything that goes on in my life from being present with my children and being with my family, to concentrating properly on my work. "I am not sleeping and when I wake up the first thing I do is check if I have any emails about this. "It really breaks my heart."
Aberdeenshire Council said officers would be meeting with parents to support new choices and implement transport arrangements. A spokesperson added: "Our decision to mothball Tullynessle School has been carefully considered through our agreed procedures. "Without the school, there will be no head teacher who has the lead role in maintaining and promoting quality in the ELC setting, ensuring children's safeguarding and wellbeing, and line management of setting staff."
