Dover Castle on the Kent coast is opening a major visitor experience in time for the school summer break. After 800 hours of work by English Heritage, a digital model of the historic castle as it was in 1216 will go on display from 22 July. The attraction, called Dover Castle Under Siege, will also see the castle's northern defences opened to the public for the first time, while children have the chance to experience a siege-themed play area. Paul Pattison, senior properties historian at English Heritage, said: "It has taken us months of research, deliberation and difficult decision-making to be able to produce this model."
The digital model will unveil how the castle looked before it was besieged and damaged during conflict Mr Pattison said: “When you see the model, Dover Castle almost rises from the ashes of the siege in 1216. The level of detail is astonishing."
Between 1215-1217, a civil war raged in England.French soldiers, led by Prince Louis, the son of King Philip II of France, fought alongside English rebel barons against King John. In 1216 Dover Castle, which remained loyal to John was broken into by French and rebel forces and an "epic, bloody, struggle for control of the castle ensued", said English Heritage.The siege lasted three months and undermined one of the castle’s gatehouse towers, but still the garrison held out.
Bob Marshall, architectural illustrator at English Heritage, said: "Creating this digital model of Dover Castle was an intimidating prospect mainly given the sheer scale of the castle."The experience includes a new exhibition with films, lights and soundscapes, hands-on elements and illustrated wall panels. The siege-themed play area includes a wooden tower, battlements with ladders and a tunnel.Mr Pattinson said: "I can’t wait for the public to experience walking underground and out onto the spur for the first time, and to imagine those who fought in that same spot centuries ago."
Follow BBC Kent on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk  or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250.
