A Portage man has been sentenced to two years of probation with sex offender treatment after entering a guilty plea to a charge of defiling a co-worker’s drink with his own semen.
Jeremy Wilson, 19, appeared in Columbia County Circuit Court on Tuesday for a sentencing hearing on a felony charge of placing foreign objects in edibles.
A Portage police officer was dispatched to the Portage Cab Co. on Feb. 25, 2016, where a woman suspected something had been done to her drink early that morning. According to court documents, she told the officer that she had been drinking Gatorade, put it down on a table in the dispatch office, and left. When she came back 20 minutes later, she said she thought it had been tampered with.
Officers referred to video footage which led to Wilson admitting he had defiled the beverage.
Wilson was accused of a similar offense the previous April, when a Portage officer was dispatched to Culver’s, where a woman said there had been an incident involving her daughter, who worked there, and one of the girl’s co-workers, Wilson.
According to the criminal complaint, the girl had gotten home from work and found a stain she couldn’t identify on a pair of yoga pants that were in her backpack. Her boyfriend knew what the stain was when she showed it to him.
When the officer asked Wilson if analysts would find his DNA on the pants, Wilson reportedly told the officer that he took the pants out of the girl’s backpack, went to the bathroom, “did his business,” and went back to work.

        
    
On Sept. 25, 2015, Wilson entered a plea of guilty to a charge of misdemeanor disorderly conduct and received a withheld sentence and a year of probation.
On Tuesday, Wilson entered a plea of guilty to a felony charge of placing foreign objects in edibles, while a second charge of misdemeanor disorderly conduct was dismissed, but read into the record.
Judge W. Andrew Voigt ordered Wilson to be placed on two years of probation and to have no contact with the victim, to undergo psychological evaluation, abide by recommended treatment and to follow through with sex offender treatment.
