Previously unseen photographs of the Royal Family make up a new exhibition at the King’s Gallery in Buckingham Palace.The pictures capture their more private and intimate moments - including one from 1943 in which King George VI sits at a desk in Royal Lodge at Windsor Castle, surrounded by his family.In many ways, it is an unremarkable photo. And that was the point of it. Despite the royal setting, the scene was so familiar and ordinary. It was designed to promote the stability and unity of the Royal Family during a time of war.Opening on 17 May, the exhibition will bring together one of the biggest collections of royal images and tell the family's story over the past 100 years.
Other pictures are more unusual, including one in 1964 of four royal mothers who gave birth within two months of each other.The late Queen, Princess Margaret, the Duchess of Kent and Princess Alexandra were all photographed with their newborns.The picture was taken as a gift for the doctor who delivered the children and has never been shown in public until now.
In more recent times, photographer Hugo Burnand has documented events of national significance - including the King’s Coronation last May and the wedding of the Prince and Princess of Wales in 2011.“There was one picture which I discussed with them which I hoped we might do, which was the picture of William and Catherine with all the bridesmaids. I call it The Tumble,” he said.For the photographer, it was his best photo of the day.It shows Prince William and the princess sitting in the Throne Room at Buckingham Palace after their wedding ceremony.They are surrounded by their young bridesmaids and page boys as the formality of the day eases.“We had three minutes to do it,” Mr Burnand said.“But three minutes isn’t long to take a portrait and the reason I mention that is because all the movement and expressions are very spontaneous.“They are from the people. They aren’t directed by me.”
As well as official photographs, some of Mr Burnand’s more informal work will also be on display.His photo of the King and Queen Camilla sitting together in the garden of Clarence House is one of the most personal pictures taken of the couple.The exhibition looks at the relationship of trust which has existed between royal sitter and royal photographer over the decades.Cecil Beaton, Norman Parkinson and Patrick Lichfield all feature.
On occasion, it is about more than just the photo - some images show annotations and notes made by the photographer.A picture of the late Queen and Prince Philip, in 1958, taken by the Earl of Snowdon gives an insight into discussions with the Royal Household around approval and circulation.Written across the bottom of the photo are the words "background must be kept light" and "please do not cut".
Everyone involved in the project has their favourites.For curator Alessandro Nasini, it is a stark photo of the late Queen taken by Cecil Beaton in 1968.“She’s not wearing any of the traditional royal trappings such as a tiara, important jewellery or insignia,” Mr Nasini said.“She comes through as the woman behind the monarchy - the solitary person on whom the responsibility of the monarchy has been bestowed.”
Visitors will be able to see how the re-touching of images has happened since the earliest days of photography, and how the influence of traditional art on photography is explored in the exhibition. A painting from 1864 of Alexandra, Princess of Wales is hung close to a photo of the current princess, taken in 2021 to mark her 40th birthday.The influence of the painting on the modern photo is clear to see.The collection is a reminder of the power of photography and how it has shaped the public perception of the Royal Family over the past century.
Meanwhile, the King and Queen have been granted special permission to tour a “No Adults Allowed” garden as part of their annual visit to Chelsea Flower Show next week as King Charles - who is the new patron of the Royal Horticultural Society - continues his treatment for cancer.To access the garden, designed by Harry Holding and pupils from Sulivan Primary School in Fulham, south-west London, the Royals had to agree to either plant a tree, donate to RHS Campaign for School Gardening, or find a flower that starts with the first letter of their name.
Sign up here to get the latest royal stories and analysis straight to your inbox every week with our Royal Watch newsletter. Those outside the UK can sign up here.
