Christmas 2017 is just around the corner. This is the time that we prepare to bake our Christmas rum cakes, make our sorrel drinks, cook some curried goat and jerked chicken with all of the trimmings for Christmas dinner and invite family and friends to celebrate the reason for the season.
But how can we celebrate without remembering that a sense of normalcy has not yet returned to our Caribbean brothers and sisters who were recently ravaged by two hurricanes?
It has been three months, but for those who are impacted, it seems like three years. For so many people back home in the islands, Christmas will not be the same for a while.
Hurricane victims in Antigua and Barbuda, St. Lucia and St. Croix, whose ongoing dilemma does not make the 6 p.m. news in America, are still crying out for help; even the U.S. territories of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin islands are still suffering along with them. Many continue to be without electricity and the modern amenities and conveniences needed to live a normal life.
Many people devastated by Hurricane Irma in September have not had their homes or livelihoods restored to them. They are depending on the kindness of strangers like you and me to find it in our hearts to donate to local and national organizations to help them.
For many families, the usual cultural dishes like fish stew, ducana, crab and fungi, conch salad and salmon balls will not make it to their dinner tables this year, since very little has been done to provide aid to some of these nations.

        
    
UNICEF is one of many organizations offering support to young victims, starting with the children of Barbuda. They have reported that 73,000 people have been affected by the hurricanes, including 20,000 children. UNICEF, a United Nations organization, is reaching out to them through the “Return to Happiness” program.
This program was developed in Mozambique during the 1992 civil war. It uses strategies that will help children who are traumatized. It has been adapted and used in many areas of catastrophe. It has been used in Ecuador with children of soldiers, in Colombia after the 1998 earthquake and in Nicaragua following Hurricane Mitch.
The approach used with children includes activities like drawing, music and physical activities to neutralize their trauma. To have maximum impact, children 5 to 12 years old are enrolled in “Return to Happiness” for two weeks. Online news reports have indicated that the program will also be offered in the devastated islands of Turks and Caicos, the British Virgin Islands and Anguilla.
The program may not seem like much to American children because they have so much and take it for granted, but it means a lot to the children living on these islands during this crisis. The program has been tried and proven to have a healing effect on those children. This is their Christmas gift.
As another year comes to a close, we need to do some reflection. The world is changing so much — flooding, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes and wild fires all around us. Even if our government is making laws and policies that are not for the common good, we have to be prepared to respond to the changes and we have to be poised to do what we can to help our fellow man.
In 2018, we must ask ourselves what more we can do because each act of kindness can spur another act of kindness and, before you know it, can make a difference all around the globe. One singular act can be the catalyst of change.
