History has been made as Labour's Kanishka Narayan becomes the first ethnic minority MP in Wales, according to the House of Commons. The former civil servant ousted former Welsh Secretary Alun Cairns from the Vale of Glamorgan. Speaking after the win, he reflected on his parents' move from India to Wales.  "It was optimism that first brought a middle-aged couple and their two young sons to south Wales, and gave them the sense that they could go from factories and petrol stations in south Wales to bringing up Wales' first MP of colour," he said.He would be "delighted" if his success "encourages" people "from all walks of life" to follow suit, he added.
"We have amazing talent in Wales, from all walks of life and all backgrounds and if my standing here has any role to play in encouraging others to from range of different backgrounds, I would be delighted and honoured to be a part of it," he said.He said his "political awakening" was born from "witnessing what damage a Conservative government had done to Wales"."That's why I am really excited to be part of overturning, bringing compassion, bringing progress back to Wales," he said.So who is Mr Narayan?
"My parents came from Behar, in eastern India, it's in the eastern tip and they came to the western tip of Britain because they wanted a good shot for their kids in terms of opportunity," he said."That's what Wales has done for my family, and that's what i hope to do for the families of the Vale of Glamorgan and in Wales."Mr Narayan grew up in Cardiff, and now lives in Barry. He said: "A minimum wage gave my family dignity," and that he was taught to "give back to quality public services". He went to Oxford University to study philosophy, politics and economics and then on to Stanford University in California to master business. Before becoming a politician himself, he had a career in government advising ministers on public policy.He also worked in business advising and investing in climate and fintech start-ups across Europe and the US. He said he was "passionate" about social mobility and justice. In terms of volunteer work Mr Narayan ran a national campaign to help British high streets during lockdown.
He also mentors state school students applying to universities.Speaking to BBC Wales after his win, he said: "My focus is totally on bringing great jobs here to the vale of Glamorgan, bringing a sense of prosperity."I think the constituents are optimistic about the change we have created in the Labour party and the mandate for change."When asked how long it will take for his constituents to see change, he said his constituents "know politics requires honesty" and he is not offering "a quick sense of results tomorrow but a considered serious form of governance that delivers for this community at the right time"."I will be working day in, day out to deliver for this community," he said.
Earlier this year, Vaughan Gething became the first black leader of any country in Europe when he was elected first minister.However, the people we sent to Westminster had, until last night, been white.Kanishka Narayan’s election in the Vale of Glamorgan as the first person of colour to be elected from Wales, changes all that.It’s one of the most significant developments since Lady Megan Lloyd George became the first woman MP from Wales, back in 1929.So as well as representing his constituents, Mr Narayan also represents a sea change as parts of Welsh society are represented in the Commons in a way they haven’t been before.
