State Democrats, in their effort to re-elect Gov. Dannel P. Malloy in the tight 2014 campaign, played fast and loose with election laws banning supplemental support for his campaign, an analysis of Federal Election Commission documents shows.
A field worker who was paid more than $2,300 for knocking on doors in Bridgeport in the weeks before the 2014 election told Hearst Connecticut Media he worked exclusively for Malloy’s campaign. FEC records show, however, he was paid from the Democratic State Central Committee’s federal account, which is reserved for U.S. House and Senate races and get-out-the-vote efforts. Other state Democratic staffers were paid tens of thousands of dollars from that same account.
Joel Rosario, 29, of Bridgeport, said recently he had not been contacted by any federal investigators, as have other Democratic staffers who have testified before a federal grand jury that is meeting in New Haven to examine Malloy’s campaign spending.
In the job Rosario was referred to by a cousin and held for only a few weeks before the election, he knocked on doors and gave out Malloy campaign literature on the East Side of Bridgeport. He also oversaw a handful of other campaign canvassers and directed them to do the same, he said.
Rosario did not, he insisted, give out any literature for Jim Himes, the Democratic congressman who was seeking re-election at the time. According to the Federal Election Commission, Rosario was paid entirely from the DSCC’s federal account.

        
    
“Printing out turf, giving them to canvassers, entering the data,” Rosario said, referring to the neighborhoods and addresses assigned to the campaign workers.
The payment from the federal account was in apparent violation of state election law, Washington and Connecticut-based election watchdogs said.
State candidates are prohibited from accepting money from contractors who have business with the state, but the same banned contractors can donate to the party’s federal account. A Hearst analysis last year showed that the banned contractors contributed $1.1 million to the party’s federal account during the 2014 election cycle.
The backdoor funding would have violated the pledge Malloy made to forgo outside money when he accepted a $6.5 million public-financing grant.
“It’s likely a violation of Connecticut state campaign finance law — an illegal in-kind contribution from the party to the Malloy campaign,” said Paul S. Ryan, deputy executive director of the Washington-based Campaign Legal Center.
After a year-and-a-half-long court battle with the DSCC, the State Elections Enforcement Commission reached a June settlement in which the Democrats paid a $325,000 penalty and agreed to abide by tighter rules going forward.
Grand jury investigation
It is unclear whether the tactic of supplementing Malloy’s campaign staff with the DSCC’s federal fund is an area of interest in the active federal grand jury probe into the party’s fundraising activities in the 2014 race. The investigation started even before the election was held and the federal grand jury has been meeting for months.
“It’s disappointing,” said Cheri Quickmire, executive director of Common Cause in Connecticut, an election and governmental transparency advocate. “I would hope that it would be part of the Department of Justice investigation. The Citizens’ Election Program seems to be working very well on the legislative side, but the charges that the extra money goes into the governor’s race is really problematic.”
Connecticut’s 2005 election reforms, adopted in the wake of former Gov. John Rowland’s pay-to-play conviction, included public financing for General Assembly and top-of-the-ticket statewide races. They have won nationwide acclaim, but U.S. Supreme Court rulings in recent years have allowed hundreds of thousands of dollars in outside funding into General Assembly campaigns and millions more to flow into gubernatorial contests, including multimillion-dollar efforts by the Republican and Democratic governors associations.
Ryan said he doubts the Democrats’ funding tactics violated federal law, which, unlike state law, doesn’t require federal account funds to be used in federal elections.
Increased staff
There are hundreds of payroll records for the DSCC, whose staff increased to close to 100 during the 2014 election cycle, listed as paid from the federal account. Hearst Connecticut Media visited the homes and called many of those staffers to ask about the nature of their work.
Erik R. Jansen was paid about $18,000 from the federal account between August and the end of December 2014, working in the DSCC’s finance and communications units. It is unclear whether his workday was devoted exclusively to the Malloy effort.
“My apologies, but I’m not going to discuss the investigation with members of the media for the time being,” Jansen, now a law student in Los Angeles, replied in an email to a request for comment.
Other former staffers in recent weeks have also declined comment, including Jordan A. Hegel, who was recently questioned by the New Haven-based federal grand jury, according to sources familiar with the federal investigation. Hegel worked in the party’s financial unit, entering data, and was paid $7,929 from the party’s federal account between July and the end of November 2014.
Two other former staffers, Sandra Lyon and Meghan Meehan-Draper, were recently interviewed by FBI agents in Washington, where they now live, sources said. They have also declined comment. Between February and November 2014, Lyon was paid $37,466 from the DSCC’s federal account, while Meehan-Draper was paid $27,801 from June through November 2014.
Strengthening the party
Michael Mandell, executive director of the Democratic State Central Committee says the party abided by the complicated federal reporting requirements.
“They were absolutely working for the governor,” Mandell said. “They were working for everybody’s election, including the federal election, Congessman Jim Himes, Get Out The Vote, voter registration, voter identification, enhancing the party’s data set, and also strengthening the party for the long haul. I don’t accept the premise that state law was broken.”
The state Democrats’ battle with SEEC started when Republicans complained that Democrats transferred hundreds of thousands of dollars from their federal account for a mailer in support of Malloy.
“We voluntarily changed activity going forward to avoid it ever happening again,” Mandell said. “We were following whatever guidance given to us from the FEC. This area has been existing for both Democrats and Republicans for the last few elections.”
Quickmire, of Common Cause, said she believes that the General Assembly has to wade into the issue next year and do what it can to limit outside resources from flowing into future campaigns through loopholes. “That’s not supposed to be going on,” she said.
Intern Gili Lipman contributed to this report
