Learner drivers in Oxfordshire have described trying to book a driving test as a "nightmare".
A backlog of tests built up from the pandemic has been blamed for long waits for learners nationwide. The average wait in the county is now 17 weeks.
Lily Ellis, 19, from Oxford, said she had to book a slot in Scotland to secure a test.
It comes as 2,000 test examiners suspend strike action over the government's handing of the backlog.
Driving lessons and tests were suspended at the height of the pandemic and faced strict restrictions when eventually allowed to return.
With the backlog still to clear, 24-year-old Ben Miley-Smith from Oxford was among those looking for a suitable test centre, eventually booking a test in St Albans, 60 miles (100km) away, in March.
He resorted to paying for apps to provide alerts of cancellations and has had the added cost of extra lessons.
"I've definitely, definitely spent more than I would have liked," he said.
Personal trainer and nutritionist Tayvis Gabbidon, 42, has been trying to book a driving test since 2020 to end his daily commute from Didcot to Oxford by bus.
He said: "I'm probably missing out on £2,000 a month from my business. It's costing me a lot of money - which would be better for the economy.
"I've considered moving somewhere in Europe for six months just to get my license… I just don't know what to do."
Nineteen-year-old Oxford resident Lily Ellis tried to book a test after three years of lessons.
She said: "It was a nightmare. There were none around where I live, I had to book a test all the way in Scotland and then wait to get a cancellation somewhere near me."
Ms Ellis said she was offered a test in Banbury, but failed as she was not familiar with the area.
Carly Brookfield, chief executive of the Driving Instructors Association, said: "The lockdown meant no driving tests were happening at all. 
"A massive backlog built up and it's taken a long time to, to get back to speed.
"There are a lot of people trying to get through this backlog and they're still making best efforts to do that."
Last week the Public and Commercial Services Union (PCS) suspended a planned four-day strike following an agreement over examiners' safety and conditions.
Latest figures show waiting times were worst in the south east of England with an average wait time of 21.4 weeks at the end of January.
Nationwide there were 152,474 test carried out in December 2023, compared to 115,641 in the same month in 2022.
Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency (DVSA) chief executive Loveday Ryder said she was "pleased" strike action would not go ahead.
 "DVSA colleagues do an outstanding job in helping to keep our roads safe and are working to bring waiting times down," she added.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk.
