LEEDS, England (AP) — Colin Graves apologized “personally and unreservedly” to those who experienced racism during his scandal-scarred period at Yorkshire as he prepares to make a controversial return to the storied English cricket club as its chairman.
The county team’s long search for fresh investment has brought it back to the person who served as Yorkshire chairman from 2012-2015 before leaving for the same role at the England and Wales Cricket Board.
Yorkshire last year 
admitted to a charge
 by the ECB of failing to deal with systemic use of racist and discriminatory language over a period between 2004 and 2021, including the years when it was under Graves’ leadership. He has previously said that no allegations of racism were raised to him and was criticized by the ECB for suggesting some racist incidents were “banter.”
Graves’ likely reinstatement represents a divisive move considering the scandal which engulfed Yorkshire and the ECB said Thursday there were “significant powers which can be used to hold Yorkshire County Cricket Club to account if it does not continue with the progress and reform we have seen over the last few years.”
Graves adopted a conciliatory tone in his latest comments about the racism scandal.
“I profoundly regret some of the language I used when asked about the events that took place when I was chairman, at a time when I was no longer at the club. I understand and sympathize with those who regarded my comments as dismissive or uncaring,” he said in a statement.

        
    
“I am determined to do whatever is required to ensure Yorkshire County Cricket Club continues to reflect the communities it represents. The club cannot and will not succeed unless it is united in its commitment to meet the highest professional standards, on and off the field.”
Graves said the work on diversity and inclusion “that has been carried out over the last two years will continue” if he returns.
“I hope that new and older members, former players, commercial sponsors and broadcasters will work with us to ensure that everyone connected with Yorkshire cricket is proud to be associated with the club,” he said.
With time running out for Yorkshire to keep the business viable, almost 15 million pounds ($19.1 million) owed to the Graves family trust and a host of other potential investors no longer at the table, the county’s board has recommended an emergency funding offer fronted by the 75-year-old Graves. The club’s membership will be asked to vote through the proposal at an extraordinary general meeting on Feb. 2.
A notice by Yorkshire confirmed plans for an immediate cash injection of 1 million pounds ($1.27 million), followed by further funding worth 4 million pounds ($5.1 million) over five months. That is all contingent on members ratifying Graves’ return to an altered board.
“Yorkshire CCC is one of the most illustrious sporting institutions in the country and one of the most successful clubs in world cricket,” Graves said. “I believe its best days still lie ahead, but success on the field cannot be achieved without financial stability off the pitch.
“There are huge challenges ahead in order to achieve this. But if the offer is accepted by members, I will lead a management team which will oversee an immediate injection of capital into the club. It is our intention to get Yorkshire back to winning ways; grow the women’s game; and inspire a new generation of children and young adults to watch and play cricket. Yorkshire must be a club that is open and welcoming to everyone who shares a passion for the game, from every part of society.”
The ECB said it was vital that work carried out by Yorkshire and across cricket to tackle discrimination and make the game more inclusive continues.
“We welcome Colin Graves’ commitment to continue this work, his unreserved apology and acceptance of the findings of the Independent Commission for Equity in Cricket,” the ECB said. “These words must be put into action if Yorkshire members approve this deal.
“Yorkshire is an incredibly diverse area and the club’s iconic status means it has a huge opportunity to be at the forefront of the sport’s work to become more inclusive.”
AP cricket: 
https://apnews.com/hub/cricket
