A charity created to support children from disadvantaged backgrounds will honour an "inspirational" young Manxman, his father has said.
The Martin family founded Looky's Aid in memory of Lucas, 21, who died after contracting meningitis in September.
Brett Martin said the charity was formed to offer young people with a "spark" who faced challenges with support in tuition or pastoral care.
It would make sure Lucas' selfless nature lived on, Mr Martin said.
A recent graduate from the University of Liverpool and keen sportsman, Lucas - who was affectionately nicknamed Looky - was "a force of nature", he said.
He said his son's death was "so sudden" that sometimes the loss "flattens" him.
But he said Lucas was a "natural captain" who, in a similar situation, would have been "galvanising" those around him to "make something positive come out of it".
The charity Looky's Aid will aim to provide young people on the island who had suffered adverse experiences, such as the loss of a parent, or were living with a disability, the support to flourish.
Mr Martin said Lucas was "lucky to be born into a comfortable, stable family", which had "helped him along the way", but not all children were as fortunate.
"Lots of kids have that spark but don't have those advantages, and their life chances are being held back by that," he said.
Lucas was posthumously awarded the Order of St John for the donation of his liver and kidneys.
The family were now encouraging people to "give it loads" - an acronym for love, optimism, ambition, determination and selflessness" - which were "characteristics that had defined the man" that Lucas was, Mr Martin said.
The 21-year-old had a "fantastic" circle of friends, who were determined to remember him, so "his legacy will live on", he said.
A football match held in Lucas Martin's memory recently raised £4,500 for the charity, which would be used to launch its work, and friends have begun fundraising for a memorial garden, he added.
Why not follow BBC Isle of Man on Facebook and X? You can also send story ideas to IsleofMan@bbc.co.uk
