The demolition of a landmark pub following a fire was unacceptable and possibly unlawful, a council has said.
The 18th Century Crooked House, near Dudley, once known as "Britain's wonkiest pub", was gutted by fire on Saturday and demolished on Monday. 
Potential breaches of the Town and Planning Act are being investigated, said South Staffordshire Council. 
The local authority has referred the matter to its legal team with a view to taking enforcement action.
On Tuesday evening between 200 and 250 people gathered at the site to see for themselves what had happened to the pub, with some collecting bricks to take away with them.
Former landlord Tom Catton, who ran it for two-and-a-half years with his wife Laura before they left in 2008, said he was "absolutely gutted" when he heard about the fire on Saturday night.
"But Sunday morning - it's not what you want to see when you're having your morning coffee," Mr Catton said.
"To go from a standing pub to a pile of rubble within less than 48 hours is just crazy because surely if there's a fire it needs to be investigated and looked at."
Council officers visited the site on Monday and agreed a programme of works with the land-owner's representative, council leader Roger Lees said.
"At no point did the council agree the demolition of the whole structure nor was this deemed necessary," he added.
Mr Lees said the way the situation was managed following the fire was "completely unacceptable and contrary to instructions provided by our officers", adding the Health and Safety Executive had been notified.
He said the authority's investigation was at an early stage and asked for time to ensure any future actions were "meaningful and proportionate".
"The council is incredibly saddened by the loss of the building which, whilst not listed, was a heritage asset and important landmark to the local area and community," he said.
Fire gutted the celebrated leaning building on Saturday night, leaving just the exterior standing. 
Staffordshire Police and the fire service are trying to establish the cause.
It was built as a farmhouse but started to subside during the early 19th Century, due to mining in the area. 
Later it became a pub people often went to to witness the illusion of coins and marbles appearing to roll uphill along the bar.
But on Monday afternoon, residents and former customers gathered at the site to see a large pile of rubble where the inn once stood.
A video shared on social media showed a digger knocking down the building. 
Among the crowds that visited the land on Tuesday evening were Emma Smith, Kerry Anne Goodman and Jack Gosnall from Kingswinford who said they felt like they had lost a family member.
"I was brought here as a child by all of my family," Ms Goodman said.
"I've brought my children here, but my youngest - I just lost the opportunity to bring him as they locked the doors.
"Why should people come and knock it down? 
"It's like a murder more than anything else. It's like a huge loss."
Ms Smith added: "It's a part of our history. Everybody feels the same, I think, that's why they've all come down here tonight."
In March, previous owner Marston's listed the building for sale with a guide price of £675,000. 
The sale of the property "as a going concern" was completed two weeks ago, said the company.
The identity of the buyer, based in Warwickshire, has not been revealed.
Speculation into the cause of the fire was "not helpful at this time", said Staffordshire Police. 
"We understand the strength of feeling in the community is high at this moment and the sadness felt amongst those who have a strong emotional attachment to this place," said Ch Insp Chris Cotton.
On Monday a police cordon was put in place. But due to the "unsafe structure" of the building, officers were told to leave the site, he said. 
"Since then, the area has been in the care of the landowners and the building has since been demolished."
The force encouraged anyone with information to come forward.
Conservative MP for South Staffordshire Sir Gavin Williamson said he shared concerns and frustrations of residents regarding the demolition. 
He tweeted he had called for a meeting for police, fire and council representatives to update him.
In the meantime, the mayor of the West Midlands has called for the building to be rebuilt "brick by brick".
Andy Street said he had asked South Staffordshire Council to ensure the pub was rebuilt "and any attempt to change its use blocked".
"We will not let the Crooked House be consigned to history," he said.
"We believe that great pubs have immense cultural and historical value here in the West Midlands and we should be taking steps to protect and preserve their heritage."
A community gathering to mourn the loss of the pub is due to be held at the site later on Tuesday. 
Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
