Miriam Margolyes said transforming a Victorian public baths into a new centre will offer young people a "whole new world of arts".On Friday, the actor visited the Grade II listed Jacobs Wells Baths in Bristol, which will re-open as a dance and arts centre in 2025. Speaking about the £1.6m restoration, Ms Margolyes said: "I think one of the most important things in the world is to make life better for young people. "Here's a place that really can help young people who live around here."
In March, the site was granted £56,895 from Historic England for emergency repairs before the main work began.Jacobs Wells opened in 1889 when it was used as a bathhouse for the poor, and closed in the late 1970s.Trinity Community Arts has taken on a 35-year guardianship lease of the site.Ms Margolyes, who is touring with her show Oh Miriam!, which include a date at Bristol Beacon later, was an early supporter of the restoration project.The celebrated actor said the idea of the Victorian building being torn down "disturbed" her.She told the BBC: "I've been working with Trinity for quite a while, they are a terrific local organisation and they've done so much good work. "I just think if I can do anything to help restore an old building and make it useful for the community in ways that people are going to enjoy using, I better get off my bum and do it." 
The actor met with the Trinity team and workers from PH3 Design, who have developed the recently-approved restoration scheme.Under the proposals, a street-facing main entrance, a new cafe-bar and studio will be built. Ms Margolyes, who is a patron of Trinity, added: "When you come into a space like this, I always think 'theatre! Theatre! Performance!' because that's what's made my life worth living, but it can be many things because it's so huge. "There is so little to help enjoy life, to find a kind of spiritual happiness."This would provide a whole new world of arts and movement and life. "It's important, it's the next world - it's what I'm going to leave when I die. But it's got to go on, and this will make it go on." 
Trinity’s chair of trustee’s Chris Luffingham said: “We’re so grateful for Miriam taking the time to visit the project and this comes as we complete key milestones including securing planning and lease completion."  Trinity will now begin on the "crucial phase one repairs", which includes work to the main hall roof. 
He said the achievement within the last year was "testament to the collaborative efforts" of everyone involved.Mr Luffingham added he was "excited" to bring the building back into use as a "multidisciplinary venue for arts, heritage, youth, community and educational use".
Follow BBC Bristol on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
