SaxaVord Spaceport in Shetland is on track to launch the UK’s first vertical rocket into orbit.The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) has granted a ‘range licence’ to the Scottish spaceport, which will allow the company to control the sea and airspace during launch.It will also ensure a clear and safe path for any rockets heading into space and ensures the safety of those on the ground.It is the latest piece in the jigsaw of permissions needed to allow orbital launches from the Shetland island of Unst.
SaxaVord was the first licensed vertical spaceport in Scotland. It received a spaceport licence in December 2023 and the company's aim is to launch up to 30 rockets every year.The range licence outlines what SaxaVord needs to do to safeguard the maritime areas around Shetland during the launch of any rockets, and to keep the airspace clear above as the rocket passes over the north pole and into orbit. The skies over the north of Scotland are a busy flight path for many transatlantic flights, so no fly zones would need to be put in place during the launch window. The range licence also places emphasis on warning people on the ground about the timing of a launch.Frank Strang, chief executive of SaxaVord Spaceport, said:  “We are delighted to have been granted our range licence by the Civil Aviation Authority and had it approved by the Secretary of State for Transport, following on from our spaceport licence in December last year. "This is a vital component in our preparations for launch. As Western Europe’s only fully licenced vertical launch spaceport, we are now preparing to make more space history with the beginning of orbital launch operations well underway.”
Seven operators are currently seeking permission from the CAA to launch their rockets into orbit from a UK spaceport. Each operator hoping to launch from a UK spaceport will need to have their own individual licence to prove they are operating within the rules.German based rocket manufacturer Rocket Factory Augsburg could be the first to launch an orbital mission from Shetland as early as this summer. They are in the process of moving their rocket from their factory in Augsburg to the Unst launch site and aim to carry out full duration tests of their stage one engine over the coming weeks. Their 'RFA One' rocket will be able to deliver a 1,300kg payload into an orbit around Earth.Scottish rocket manufacturer Skyrora, based in Cumbernauld, are also working with the CAA to obtain a launch vehicle licence and could be the first Scottish rocket to launch into orbit from Scottish soil.
