Polling stations have closed for voting in the 2024 general election to elect MPs to sit in the House of Commons. People across Norfolk were able to cast their ballot for candidates at their local polling station until 22:00 BST. Results will be declared throughout the early hours of Friday, with a large number expected between 03:00 and 05:00 BST.Reaction, analysis as well as results will be carried live on the BBC Norfolk website and BBC Radio Norfolk.
Elections are being held in all 10 constituencies covering Norfolk.They are: Broadland and Fakenham, Great Yarmouth, Mid Norfolk, North Norfolk, North West Norfolk, South Norfolk, South West Norfolk, Norwich North and Norwich South.Waveney Valley is a constituency straddling both Norfolk and Suffolk. Under a system called "first past the post", the candidate with the most votes becomes the MP for that area.A total of 650 MPs representing the UK will be elected to the House of Commons.The BBC, like other broadcasters, is not allowed to report on campaigning while the polls are open. More details about electoral law and our BBC code of practice are explained here.
Don't forget your voter ID!A reminder that voters do not need to show a polling card to vote in a general election, but must have one of 22 forms of valid photo ID.This includes a passport, driving licence or an older or disabled person's bus pass. 
Postal votersSome people who opted for a postal vote have reported either not receiving a voting pack, or getting them late. If you have not received your postal vote, your local council's returning officer can issue a replacement voting pack up until 17:00 on polling day.You cannot collect a replacement voting pack from your local polling station.Your completed postal vote must be with your local council by 22:00 on polling day.If you have received your postal vote but are worried there is too little time to mail it back before the deadline, you can take your completed postal pack to your polling station on 4 July before it closes at 22:00.Alternatively, you can take the completed form to your council's electoral services team during office hours anytime before 17:00 on Thursday.
Follow Norfolk news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
