Thousands of people have taken to the streets of Belfast for the city's annual pride parade.While it was damp and dull weather wise – those attending said they wouldn't let the forecast rain on their parade.The theme for Belfast Pride 2024 is Love Your Mind.Organisers said they chose the topic because mental health is something that affects everyone in a multitude of ways.
Kirsty Mulholland is the co-chair of Belfast Pride and said this year's parade is the culmination of a full year's work.“With any pride festival it’s important that it’s not just a big celebration and that we do have a message to deliver, " she said.“We are here to deliver the message 'love your mind' and we are saying to everyone that is here today – and in our community – that you are loved, that you belong with all of us and that you matter."Belfast Pride Festival is one of the biggest festivals in the city with more than 150 events across 10 days.
Leading this year's parade was Belfast Lord Mayor Micky Murray.Mr Murray, who describes himself as Belfast's first openly-gay mayor, said it was  "incredibly important" for him to be there.He said it was important "that people see the first citizen of the city taking part in the biggest, brightest most-inclusive festival that happens in our city on an annual basis.“This year’s theme is love your mind and that’s incredibly important to  the LGBTQIA+  community as we are negatively affected by discrimination and prejudice," he added."I’ve been coming to Belfast pride for 18 years . It’s my very first Belfast Pride as lord mayor of Belfast and I’m so excited to be leading the parade today.”
Robyn Skates and Max McCall both attended the parade for the first time this year.Robyn said that there was "such a good atmosphere - even though it's raining"."As soon as they had started the parade it just lashed - but it doesn't really matter . It's a great turnout."On this year's theme she said that "mental health is so important".
Louis Green brought his kids Evie and Katy to the parade. "We came down today to show our support and show the kids what it is all about," he said."The crowd gets bigger and bigger every year and it's lovely to see everyone out and enjoying themselves."
Jackson Kenny, who was parading alongside the Belfast Trans Resource Centre, said it was “really important to have Pride events because queer rights are under attack at the minute”.“We really appreciate being able to go out and have a bit of craic.”
Jenna brought her eight-year-old son Charlie to his first pride event.She said she had been to previous pride events before she had children and that was “a bit more of a party”.“This is our first time with a family day out doing pride, but it’s just as fun and just as lovely.“You see on social media the abuse and slander that people get just trying to live their lives and be themselves so it’s lovely to see everyone come here today and just be themselves."
