U.S. District Judge Alia Moses did right by the citizens of Crystal City in going beyond the federal guidelines in sentencing their former city attorney and city manger for illegal activities that nearly bankrupted the community.
Public corruption is among the worst of white collar crimes. It undermines the good work of law abiding civil servants and the public’s confidence in government operations.
And few have been as audacious about it as former lobbyist James Jonas III, 56. He was sentenced to 35 years by Moses after a jury found him guilty last June on 18 criminal charges that included bribery and wire fraud.
In addition, the judge ordered Jonas to pay his former employer $1 million in restitution and forfeit an additional $17,000 to the federal government.
Federal sentencing guidelines called for a sentence of 24 to 30 years in prison but the fact Jonas was untruthful and unrepentant for what he did prompted Moses to go beyond those measures, the Express-News reported. This was an entirely correct action.
Jonas was one of five former Crystal City public officials arrested in 2016 on public corruptions charges that included accepting bribes and kickbacks from contractors doing business with the city.
Crystal City’s former Mayor Ricardo Lopez and former councilmen Roy Mata, Roel Mata and Gilbert Urrabazo are awaiting sentencing after having been found guilty on bribery charges.

        
    
Crystal City, a low wealth rural community with a population of about 7,300 residents 130 miles southwest of San Antonio, is still trying to recover from their schemes.
Court testimony during Jonas trial revealed that $2.25 million from the sale of certificates of obligation — intended to pay for water meters, lighting and air conditioning equipment among other things — was instead diverted to pay Jonas’ exorbitant salary and other unauthorized expenditures.
The jury also heard several audiotapes, made by informants, on which Jonas and the mayor solicited bribes.
At the time of his arrest, Jonas salary was $216,000, just a few thousand dollars less than the salary of San Antonio’s deputy city managers.
We hope Jonas’ fall — and his stiff sentence — serve as a message to other corruption-minded officials. When it comes to theft or diversion of public funds, the likelihood of discovery is high and the penalty will be deservedly harsh. Such crimes are more than corruption, they represent a betrayal of the public trust, which, when it occurs, erodes confidence in our governance and in our institutions.
Jonas’ sentence and the order to make restitution won’t make Crystal City whole again, but it could help restore some of this beleaguered community’s confidence in the system.
