Want more Olympics?
 Sign up for our daily 
Postcards from Paris newsletter.
PARIS (AP) — As a gay youth growing up in central France, Hugo Bardin never felt he lived in a world that represented who he was — a world in which he had a place.
And that is why Bardin, who performs as the drag queen Paloma, felt it was meaningful and important to be part of 
a Paris Olympics opening ceremony
 that presented a multifaceted, multiethnic France with people of different ethnicities and orientations.
“It was a really important moment for the French people and the representation of France around the world,” says Paloma, who took part in a single scene that has drawn some furious criticism — including from presidential candidate Donald Trump in the United States, who called it “a disgrace.” 
Although the ceremony’s 
artistic director, Thomas Jolly
, and other participants have repeatedly said the scene wasn’t inspired by “The Last Supper,” 
critics interpreted that part of the show
 as a mockery of Leonardo Da Vinci’s painting showing Jesus Christ and his apostles. 
Hugo Bardin who performs as the drag queen Paloma speaks, during an interview with The Associated Press in Paris, France, Wednesday, July 31, 2024. (AP Photo/Michel Euler)
Paloma, best known for winning “Drag Race France,” appeared with other drag artists and dancers alongside Barbara Butch, a popular DJ who wore a silver headdress that looked like a halo. Butch has now 
filed a complaint alleging online abuse and harassment,
 and Paris police have launched an investigation.
Paloma is not, at this point, planning to take legal action over online harassment, and would prefer to focus on the many “loving messages” that have been pouring in. The performer been getting thousands of messages daily, she told The Associated Press, most of them positive but some that she described as “violent” and even “from the Middle Ages.” 

        
    
Still, there are no misgivings, despite the backlash. Paloma said she was proud to have been part of a show that did not rely on a series of French cliches — for example, “the Parisian with a baguette under their arm.”
Catch up on the latest from Day 11 of the 2024 Paris Olympics:
“It could have been a postcard from 1930,” she said of the ceremony. “But instead, it was a photograph of France in 2024.”
Many agreed and praised the ceremony for its creativity, style and showmanship.
But French Catholic bishops and others were among those who said Christians had been offended, though 
Paris Olympics organizers have said
 there was “never an intention to show disrespect to any religious group” but rather to “celebrate community tolerance.”
Trump was asked on Fox News what he thought of the so-called “Last Supper” scene. “I’m very open-minded,” the former president and current Republican nominee told host Laura Ingraham, “but I thought what they did was a disgrace.”
Of Trump’s comments, Paloma said: “My first reaction is to say that if Donald Trump is not reacting, then we have not done our job.”
FILE - Drag queens prepare to perform on the Debilly Bridge in Paris, during the opening ceremony of the 2024 Summer Olympics, Friday, July 26, 2024. A storm of outrage about the Paris Olympics’ opening ceremony took a legal turn Tuesday July 30, 2024, with a DJ who performed at the show saying her lawyer is filing complaints over a torrent of threats and other abuse that the LGBTQ+ icon has suffered online in the ceremony’s wake. (AP Photo/Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi, File)
The criticism, she said, has been fueled by hate. “Where is the Catholicism, the Christianity in that? It is very hypocritical that their message is not about religion or kindness, it’s about hate towards Jews, fat people, queer people and trans people.”
“We have been accused of trying to impose our vision on the world,” Bardin said. “We are not. ... We just want to let people know that we have a place in the world, and we are claiming that place.”
Paloma spoke to the AP in a phone interview and later at her Paris workshop, a studio devoted to her drag performance. Bardin debuted the drag queen persona some five years ago, the Spanish name inspired by the films of Pedro Almodóvar.
Asked if she had any regrets, Paloma replied: “My only regrets is people’s reactions. I’m sorry if people are offended, but we did not try to parody, to mock ‘The Last Supper.’ It was not the point. So I can’t regret what I did. I’m sorry for people to only see things in a bad way.”
She added: “Maybe change the perspective. Change the point of view. Try to see the beauty in what we did. Because it was just beauty. It was just only about beauty and reunion, and reparation.”
AP journalists Nicolas Garriga and Amira Borders in Paris contributed to this report. 
For more coverage of the Paris Olympics, visit 
https://apnews.com/hub/2024-paris-olympic-games
. 
