Want more Olympics?
 Sign up for our daily 
Postcards from Paris newsletter.
PARIS (AP) — Mijain Lopez has gone out on top.
The 41-year-old Cuban defeated Yasmani Acosta Fernandez of Chile 6-0 in the 130-kilogram final at the 
Paris Olympics
 on Tuesday to win his fifth consecutive gold medal in Greco-Roman wrestling. 
He’s the first Olympic athlete to win gold in the same event at five consecutive Games, and the first wrestler to win five gold medals.
“What’s great is the joy,” Lopez said through a translator. “It was a result that I was craving, but also for the whole world and my country. So happy to reach the Olympic elite. The reward of a lifetime of working hard with the help of everyone and my family. It is my biggest win.”
Following the match, Lopez placed his shoes in the center of the mat, symbolizing his retirement. He first appeared at the Summer Olympics in 2004, when he finished fifth. Now, he’s ready to pass the torch.
“I have a lot of inspiration for all the young people that come to me for guidance,” he said. “I have a lot of inspiration to give to the world. I would like to educate the younger generations.”
Shortly after winning this gold medal, Lopez embraced Acosta Fernandez, a Cuban who moved to Chile to give himself a better chance of competing in the big events. 
Acosta Fernandez is the first wrestling medalist for Chile. He said he didn’t mind being a part of history.
“I feel a mix of emotions,” he said. “I wanted to win gold, but at the same time, not so much because it’s Mijain, a legend in wrestling worldwide.”

        
    
As Lopez continued to celebrate, jubilant fans clapped in unison as the song “Sweet Dreams (Are Made of This)” by the Eurythmics blared over the sound system. Lopez dropped to all fours, then stood briefly before unlacing his shoes as the crowd cheered. 
After he removed his shoes, he held both arms up and acknowledged the fans again.
Catch up on the latest from Day 11 of the 2024 Paris Olympics:
At the last Olympics, Lopez became the first male wrestler to win four Olympic gold medals when he dominated in Tokyo, blowing through the field unscored upon in four matches. He gave up two points in four matches this time.
“To get to this point, the first thing you need is to love your sport, love what you do and show to the world that you are capable of winning with so little,” he said. 
AP Summer Olympics: 
https://apnews.com/hub/2024-paris-olympic-games
