CHICAGO (AP) — The Dallas Stars acquired Max Domi in a trade with the Chicago Blackhawks on Thursday night on the forward’s 28th birthday.
The move was announced after Dallas’ 
5-2 victory
 at Chicago. Domi was scratched for what the Blackhawks said was “roster management.”
The NHL trade deadline is Friday.
“We’re excited to add a player of Max’s caliber to our lineup,” Stars general manager Jim Nill said in a release. “His offense this season speaks for itself, but he’ll also provide energy, grit and a veteran presence as we continue our push to the postseason.”
The addition of Domi gives Dallas another veteran forward as it angles for playoff positioning. The Stars (33-16-13) are on top of the Western Conference, one point better than the idle Vegas Golden Knights.
Dallas also got minor league goaltender Dylan Wells from Chicago for veteran goaltender Anton Khudobin and a 2025 second-round pick.
The lowly Blackhawks (21-35-5) continue to lean into their tanking strategy, hoping for a chance to take Connor Bedard with the No. 1 pick in the draft.
Longtime star 
Patrick Kane
, forwards Domi and 
Sam Lafferty
 and defensemen Jake McCabe and Jack Johnson have been traded away by Chicago since Sunday.
The Blackhawks also made two minor deals on Thursday. They acquired Maxim Golod from Anaheim for Dylan Sikura in a swap of minor league forwards, and they got forward Anders Bjork from Buffalo in exchange for future considerations. 

        
    
Domi had a team-best 18 goals and 31 assists in 60 games with Chicago. He had two goals and an assist in a 4-3 victory at Dallas last week.
Domi, the son of former NHL forward Tie Domi, signed a $3 million, one-year contract with the Blackhawks in July.
The 36-year-old Khudobin was likely included for salary cap purposes. He hasn’t appeared in an NHL game this season. The Blackhawks said he would report to Rockford of the American Hockey League.
The Stars assigned Wells and loaned forwards Fredrik Karlstrom and Fredrik Olofsson and goaltender Matt Murray to the AHL’s Texas Stars.
Follow Jay Cohen at https://twitter.com/jcohenap
AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
