The local economy could receive a £16m boost from the arrival of the National Eisteddfod, believe Rhondda Cynon Taf council officials.Wales' annual Welsh-language cultural festival is held at a different location each year, and attracts around 160,000 people, with thousands competing in music, dance and literature competitions. Council officials have invested £275,000 and believe each pound will generate £60 for the economies of Pontypridd and the surrounding area. With less than a week until the gates of Ynysangharad Park open for the event, business owners are hoping for a boost after a difficult few years.
Sian John, who owns three high street businesses in Pontypridd—Blueberry Hotel, Alfred's Restaurant, and Crazy Croissant Cafe—said she is really looking forward to it despite some concerns non Welsh-speaking locals will not fully embrace it."In terms of the hospitality sector, we have been hit hard and have been through everything, from the floods in Pontypridd to the pandemic," she said. The hotel is expected to be busy, and she added: "We have decorated, extended our opening hours, added more staff, so I really hope the Eisteddfod will have a positive impact on us... and hopefully put Pontypridd on the map."One business in Pontypridd has decided to have a stall on the field of the festival.Emma Jamal who owns a gift shop, said: "Since I found out that the Eisteddfod was coming here, I have been extremely excited."We registered our interest to have a stall on the field and I think we are the only business from the town to do so. We have been planning for six months."Although Ms Jamal is looking forward to it, she said she is "nervous" about how exactly the Eisteddfod will affect the town."For people like me who don’t use Welsh often, it will be good to be put in a situation where I have to speak Welsh," she added.
Some market workers hope that people will visit their stalls there during the week.Theresa Connor, owner of a Welsh cake shop, said: "I think it’s great."It will have a positive impact and help the local economy and I think that’s a good thing, and anything that brings business to Pontypridd is a good thing."
Gwydion, Millie, and Aled are also looking forward to the Eisteddfod in their local area.Gwydion talked about the importance of the Eisteddfod for the Welsh language in the area."It’s very important. There is a lot of Welsh in Pontypridd, especially among the children. Having the Welsh festival here helps to sustain and grow the Welsh language in the area," he said. The three will be competing for the first time in the Eisteddfod with the Ysgol Garth Olwg community choir.A Rhondda Cynon Taf spokesperson said: “One of our goals as a council is to support the local economy and local businesses, and the return on investment makes sense. "The Eisteddfod will provide a huge boost to local businesses, and we are hopeful that once visitors see what we have to offer in Rhondda Cynon Taf, they will continue to visit in the years to come."
