A man who helps run a flying school at risk of closure due to housing development plans says it could cost hundreds of jobs.
Plans to build 400 homes and a primary school at Tollerton airfield have been submitted.
They include demolishing the runway, air traffic control building and café.
Naveed Ishaq, from CFS Flight Training based at the airfield, said it was "quite upsetting" as losing it would be a "great loss".
The application, made to Rushcliffe Borough Council by Vistry Homes, forms part of a wider proposal to build 1,600 homes at the airfield, which is home to Nottingham City Airport.
Mr Ishaq, operations manager at the training school, said he was concerned about the livelihoods of his staff, as well as for the other businesses on site.
"It is quite upsetting because if it does close down, there will be hundreds of people that will lose jobs, and will have to move, and also students as well," he said.
"For the people of Nottingham, it is a great airfield. It has beautiful runways. 
"For it to close down would be a big loss for ourselves, for all the companies and the East Midlands emergency services based here."
He added the airfield also held a lot of history, as pilots and fighter jets were based there in World War Two.
He said he had been working with the police and youth clubs with the intention of training young people to become pilots or engineers, which would be funded by the government.
"Now that will all be finished, sadly," he added.
Shehzad Ghani, a student at the training school, gave up his job in recruitment to pursue an aviation career, and he feels this could stop others from doing the same. 
He said if it closed, students would have to travel two or three hours to Oxford, Milton Keynes, or Southend for training.
Mr Ghani added: "If people want to get into aviation, want to become commercial pilots, it is not making the route any easier for them.
"It needs to stay and be developed as an airfield and create jobs for the locals. You can create homes, but where is everyone going to work if there is nowhere for them to work?"
The developer said while the consultation was ongoing, there was scope for adaptation, adoption and improvement of the plans.
Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook, on X, or on Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2210.
