Three young Northern Ireland football fans found themselves at the heart of a historic moment at Windsor Park on Tuesday evening.
First Minister Michelle O'Neill attended the stadium for the first time as the women's side took on Montenegro. 
The Uefa Women's Nations League play-off match ended in a 1-1 draw.
Kelly Robinson, Oliver Smyth and Kate McCool seized a photo opportunity with Ms O'Neill and Deputy First Minister Emma Little-Pengelly.
Kelly's mum Geraldine Kelly Robinson said it was a "dream night" for the children, who felt like celebrities going into school on Wednesday.  
"I was watching the news when her dad sent the picture to me and I couldn't believe it," she told BBC News NI. 
"It was a very important night and there's Kelly and her friends right in the middle of it.
"They don't even realise how important last night was, people have been messaging Kelly and she just says 'I just asked them for a photo'."
While it was not the first time a Sinn Féin politician had attended a Northern Ireland match at Windsor Park, it was the first time a Sinn Féin first minister or deputy first minister had been to the south Belfast stadium.
Ms Little-Pengelly of the Democratic Unionist Party was also among the crowd, as well as her party colleague Communities Minister Gordon Lyons.
Geraldine described her daughter as a huge football fan and quite a talented player, having recently been selected for the elite girls national performance program ran by the IFA.
Kelly plays football with Kate McCool with Roe Valley under-13s, while their friend Oliver Smyth plays for Limavady youths. 
The trio made the trip to Belfast from Limavady in County Londonderry with Kelly's dad Martin.
"They have been to quite a few games, with their flags and everything but I don't think they realised this was a special occasion," she said.
Geraldine said the children had been sitting close to the box where the first and deputy first minster were sitting. 
"My husband initially made a signal to to Emma [Little-Pengelly] to have a photo with the kids," said Geraldine. 
"I don't know what he was expecting but she came straight down and right behind her was Michelle [O'Neill].
"It was great, they took the time to talk to the girls, asking them if they followed football or played the sport".
Kelly was also presented with two shirts by Northern Ireland women's team, which Geraldine described as the "icing on the cake".
"Kelly really does love football and she looks up to the players like idols."
