As we count down to 2024, BBC News asked a group of West Midlands photographers to reflect on the year that's coming to an end by choosing their favourite image of 2023.
The photographers who were approached regularly post their photos on Instagram, where more than 51,000 people follow the BBC Midlands Instagram account.
"Capturing a sunrise over the bluebells at Clent Hills requires a lot of work. It's an early morning start that begins way before sunrise to give you the time to get to the location, walk up the hill and be in position to take the photo." said Bearwood-based photographer Simon Lea.
"When all the conditions come together perfectly - the early morning scent of the flowers, the peace and calmness of being alone on Clent Hills as the sky then lights up - is one of the most exhilarating feelings there is."
"My favourite image of the year was taken at the Sheepwalks, near Stourbridge," said Wordsley-based Steve Spencer.
"It's my favourite local landscape location and in my favourite weather too.
"I was delighted to have the place to myself until this small group of friends arrived, but they ended up making the image."
"This is a classic picture of early morning on Floodgate Street in Digbeth," explained Knowle-based photographer Damien Walmsley.
"Not many people are stirring this early in the day and the overhead lights turn off around 15 minutes before sunrise. 
"I took advantage of the rain-swept streets which provided reflections of the old industrial buildings and street art. I love the warm streetlights contrasting against the blue hour sky."
"This is one of my favourite images of the year as it was taken on one of the few frosty mornings we had over autumn, where the conditions and colours combined to create lots of atmospheric photographic opportunities," said Balsall Common-based photographer Luke Bennett.
"I'm not much of an early riser, but I made the effort on this occasion to get up at the crack of dawn and head to Ragleth Hill, near Church Stretton in Shropshire, in the hopes of a scene like this presenting itself.
"This image comprises Caer Caradoc and Helmeth Hill, with the Wrekin in the far background. Just entering the scene on the right is Hope Bowdler Hill. It was my first time up Ragleth, and it's a beautiful view of the Shropshire Hills, so I plan on returning next year."
"I started to go walking because I was widowed at the age of 46 and that in turn led into the photography," said Netherton photographer Lisa Reynolds.
"Just three years ago I got my first camera and soon started to enjoy recording my walks through the lens. Sharing my photos online, I'm told, brings a smile to people that struggle to get out and enjoy the outdoors and that in turn gives me great pleasure too. 
"Every day is different, sometimes you see a lot and sometimes it can be quiet but just being out and about in any weather puts a smile on my face. 
"My photo was taken at Forge Mill Lake in Sandwell Valley and is my favourite from 2023 as it wraps everything up into one, I absolutely love sunrises and all wildlife too."
"This image 'Xmas through a child's eyes' has become a favourite of mine," said Coventry-based Mark Pemberton.
"It was taken on the first weekend of the Christmas festivities in Coventry, the fountains were still on at this point and I wanted to capture the sheer magical feeling in Coventry this Christmas.
"The child in the centre of the picture was just taking it all in and that's the best way to see Christmas…through a child's eyes."
"I'm lucky enough to live extremely close to Enville and the Sheepwalks, better known by myself and fellow photographers as The Sheepies," said Worcestershire-based photographer Simon Beckett. 
"It is a calm, tranquil and beautiful place to sit and ponder. Watch the world go by sat on the Hickman bench at the top of the hills. You have views over the Malverns, Clee Hill, Clent, Kinver Edge and the Wrekin. 
"I've spent the last 20 years exploring, documenting and walking the area. It is my go to, happy place to be. You're guaranteed to see something different every day whether that be a cloud inversion, fog, mist, a spectacular sunrise or sunset."
"I simply love our wonderful Sutton Park," said Sutton Coldfield photographer Alison Matthews.
"I feel so lucky to have this amazing natural space on my doorstep. The park is my happy place where I go for fresh air, exercise, photography, meeting fellow nature lovers and the simple pleasure of being outdoors and amongst nature.
"My absolute favourite picture was taken by Powell's Pool at sunset this summer.
"On this occasion I saw a lady sitting on the jetty at sunset. She told me that this spot was her special place for a bit of calmness and tranquillity. I felt I'd found a kindred spirit and captured a special moment in time." 
"I like this image as I prefer to take atmospheric weather photos," said Worcester-based Collette Knibb.
"I have been taking photos as a hobby and nothing serious for about four years now. 
"It started when I just took a random photo of wild flowers and I posted it on social media and I had so much positive feedback and requests to buy the print.
"From then on, I have enjoyed taking photos for others to enjoy. I don't take it seriously and it is just a hobby as I often just use my phone and don't have the proper equipment to make it too serious."
"I was very honoured to be asked to select my favourite image of 2023. What I thought would be easy, wasn't," said Shropshire-based photographer Nick Spence.
"Too many favourites, but [I] kept being drawn back to one of my most recent photos - the Christmas tree in the library at Attingham Park near Shrewsbury. Its rich warm tones and an air of magic and expectation. The lighting, perfect.  
"At the time of taking this, I was surrounded by families with young children. You could feel the excitement and wonder in the air. This is why it is my favourite image of 2023."
You can submit your images for consideration as BBC Midlands' Instagram photo of the day by using the hashtag #bbcmidlands
Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
