A row over hikes in toll fees on the Norfolk and Suffolk Broads has escalated after a group lodged an official complaint.
The Broads Hire Boat Federation (BHBF) has appealed to the Department for Transport (DfT) over a 13% toll increase by the Broads Authority.
The BHBF said the rise could put boat yards out of business.
But the authority said the rise was needed to protect services and maintain the waterways.
The BHBF also criticised the consultation process leading up to the rise in tolls, labelling it "unlawful and unreasonable".
The increase, implemented in April, added more than £200 to the cost for large hire boats, creating a significant extra expense in a year when many yards suffered a fall in bookings.
But the authority has dismissed the claims, insisting all rules have been followed and the rise was needed to protect services and maintain the waterways.
The objection from the BHBF comes soon after the Broads Authority voted to introduce a further toll increase for next year.
BHBF's challenge against the 2023 fees has been lodged as a "notice of objection" with the government.
In an open letter to the Broads Authority, James Knight, a member of the BHBF and director of hire firm Norfolk Broads Direct, called for this year's increase to be scrapped to help protect boat firms.
He wrote: "Earlier this year, the Broads Authority chose to impose swingeing tolls increases of 13% across the board, without proper consultation, and in breach of the Broads Acts.
"In 2023, hire boat businesses such as our own experienced a year-on-year decline of 20-25% in bookings, to which many businesses responded by dropping prices by up to 40% in a last-minute attempt to stimulate sales.
"This fall in demand has coincided with increasing costs, the largest of which in both percentage and monetary terms are the Broads Authority tolls."
The 13% rise meant a toll for the largest hire boat cost £1,840.32 this year. Next year it will increase to £1996.80.
A spokesman for the Broads Authority refuted Mr Knight's allegations that toll fees were being used unlawfully.
He said: "The 13% tolls increase last year was necessary in light of increased pressures on budgets and above inflation costs, in order to maintain our navigation responsibilities.
"The authority followed the statutory process in consulting the navigation committee.
"The consultation process and apportionment of costs are not 'unlawful' and decisions are made in line with the requirements of the Broads Act."
He added that an "evidence-based review" of the allocation of the budgets took place ahead of the toll setting last year and that the authority's planning team are "regularly applauded" through surveys.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
