Thomas Kingston, husband of Lady Gabriella Kingston and son in law of Prince and Princess Michael of Kent, has died at the age of 45, Buckingham Palace has announced.
He was found dead at an address in Gloucestershire on Sunday evening, with emergency services called to the scene.
There were no suspicious circumstances and no-one else was involved.
King Charles and Queen Camilla sent their "most heartfelt thoughts and prayers" to his family.
A statement from Mr Kingston's widow Lady Gabriella and his family, issued by Buckingham Palace, paid tribute to Mr Kingston: "Tom was an exceptional man who lit up the lives of all who knew him."
The death was described as a "great shock to the whole family".
Lady Gabriella is the daughter of Prince and Princess Michael of Kent - with Prince Michael, aged 81, being a grandson of King George V and first cousin of the late Queen Elizabeth II.
A Buckingham Palace spokesman said that King Charles and Queen Camilla "join Prince and Princess Michael of Kent and all those who knew him in grieving a much-loved member of the family".
Mr Kingston, a director at private equity firm Devonport Capital, married Lady Gabriella in 2019 at Windsor Castle's St George's Chapel, at a wedding with guests including Queen Elizabeth II, Prince Philip and Prince Harry.
He had previously worked in Baghdad in Iraq, with the Diplomatic Missions Unit of the Foreign Office, where he was involved in securing the release of hostages. 
Lady Gabriella, aged 42, is not a working member of the Royal Family.
Her parents Prince and Princess Michael of Kent were present at the service for the late former King Constantine of Greece at St George's Chapel on Tuesday. 
Prince William unexpectedly withdrew from the memorial service over an unspecified "personal matter", but it is understood that was not connected to the news about Mr Kingston.
Gloucestershire Police said it was called by the ambulance service to an address in the Cotswolds at 18:25 GMT on Sunday.
The force said: "The death is not being treated as suspicious and a file will be prepared for the coroner." An inquest is expected to be held.
You can see more royal stories in the weekly BBC News Royal Watch Newsletter - sign up here from within the UK. or here, from outside the UK.
