When people find out about Carol Jones's hobby they often seem taken aback.
"They're like 'Oh my god, really? Arm-wrestling?' They're shocked and wondering why," she said.   
The school cook, 40, is taking part in the first Professional Armwrestling Association (PAA) regional competition to be held in north Wales on Saturday.
"It's not as scary as people think and that it's not just for men," said Carol. 
She is one of a group of five who have been meeting in a garden shed in Nefyn, Gwynedd, to train ahead of the competition in the nearby village of Edern.
The mum-of-two said she could see her love for the sport rubbing off on her four-year-old daughter. 
"She sees me going to the gym and says 'Mam, I'm going to be strong like you'," said Carol, from Pwllheli.
"I'm trying to teach her to be confident and that she can do whatever she wants and not to be like society wants you to be."
Her 15-year-old son is less impressed, she said. 
"He is a bit embarrassed in case his friends see me," she laughed. 
Carol spends time building muscle at the gym, but said arm-wrestling was more about technique than strength.
"You've got to learn to use your whole body... if you're winning but you're stuck you change your position... it's really fascinating," she said. 
She would like to see more women take up the sport.
"It's a family-orientated event, people, bring their whole families to these competitions, it's a very friendly community... it's a respectable sport," she said.
Learning disabilities staff nurse Sian Hughes, 41, from Nefyn has been training alongside Carol after becoming interested in the sport through her husband Reuben. 
Reuben took up the hobby about two years ago after reading about it on Facebook and now trains once a week with a professional in England.
He has already come in the top three of the novice category in UK competitions and has been training new recruits, including Sian and Carol, in his garden shed.
For years, Sian and their children, aged 14 and 16, would travel around the country to for his competitions, but she has recently got the arm-wrestling bug herself. 
"I've been persuaded to compete… it's my first ever competition and yes.. it will be an experience," said Sian.
She said although she was relatively new to arm-wrestling she was already feeling the benefits. 
"It's good for your mental health, good for you physical health and it's something different," she said.
"It's great, especially if you've got a stressful job, you can just go to a table and forget about everything and concentrate... it makes you feel good."
Sian said like Carol, people were often surprised when they found out about her hobby. 
"I'm only 5ft 1in (155cm), I'm very petite so it's not something they expected," she said. 
"It's just something different, you're not following the crowd and doing what girls are expected to do."
What would they say to other women considering taking up the sport? 
"Go for it," said Sian.
"The community is so special."
"Don't be too shy or too afraid or not think you're good enough," added Carol.
"It's for all shapes and sizes and all different strengths and it's really rewarding."
