WASHINGTON (AP) — The new 114th U.S. Congress counts more minorities and women than ever, although lawmakers remain overwhelmingly white and male in the Republican-controlled House of Representatives and Senate.
A record 104 women are in the new Congress, and for the first time, African-American members of both genders are representing both parties. No seats in Congress are reserved for women or minorities.
The number of female lawmakers is up slightly from 100 at the close of the last Congress, but represents about 20 percent of the total in Congress. It’s far less than the nearly 51 percent of the U.S. population.
A total of 96 racial minorities will serve in Congress, about 18 percent.
There are 100 senators and 435 seats in the House.
The House will have 246 Republicans and 188 Democrats. One seat is vacant following the resignation on Monday of Republican Michael Grimm, who pleaded guilty to a felony tax evasion charge.
The Senate will have 54 Republicans and 44 Democrats, plus two independents — Maine’s Angus King and Vermont’s Bernie Sanders. Both caucus with Democrats.
HOUSE
A total of 84 women will serve in the House, compared with 80 in the last Congress. The new lawmakers include Elise Stefanik, a 30-year-old New York Republican who is the youngest woman ever elected to the House. Also making history is Mia Love, 38, whose election to a suburban Salt Lake City district made her the first black female Republican to win a seat in Congress.
Forty-four African-Americans are in the House, including another black Republican freshman, Will Hurd of Texas. Hurd made news last month as he was named chairman of an Information Technology subcommittee on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, an unusual distinction for a new member.

        
    
There are 34 Hispanic lawmakers, including 10 Republicans, as well as 10 Asian-Americans and two Native Americans, both Republicans from Oklahoma.
Non-voting delegates represent the Washington capitol district, the commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa and the Northern Mariana Islands.
SENATE
The number of women in the Senate remains at 20, following the election of Republicans Joni Ernst of Iowa and Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia, and the defeat of Democrats Kay Hagan of North Carolina and Mary Landrieu of Louisiana.
Two African-Americans serve as senators — Republican Tim Scott of South Carolina and Democrat Cory Booker of New Jersey.
There are three Hispanic senators: Republicans Marco Rubio of Florida and Ted Cruz of Texas and Democrat Robert Menendez of New Jersey.
Democrat Mazie Hirono of Hawaii is the only Asian-American in the Senate.
NEW MEMBERS
Fifty-eight new House members join the ranks — 43 Republicans and 15 Democrats.
The Senate welcomes 13 new members — 12 Republicans and one Democrat.
