A man accused of the murder of 23-year-old Odhrán Kelly in Lurgan in December has been refused bail. 
Shane Harte, 31, of Headington House in Lurgan, appeared at Craigavon Magistrates' Court on Friday.
Mr Kelly's body was found beside a burning car in Maple Court, close to Edward Street on 3 December.
Refusing bail, the judge said Mr Harte was "not a suitable candidate for bail, with a history of violence, a risk of flight and interference".
Five people in total have been charged in connection with his death.
Gary Damien Scullion, 31, of Edward street in Lurgan, has also been charged with the murder.
Two women, Andrea Stevenson and Stephanie McClelland, are accused of assisting an offender.
A third woman, Crystal Angela Redden, is charged with perverting the course of justice by making a false statement.
A police officer told the court that on the night of Mr Kelly's death officers had visited a block of flats to which the burnt-out car was connected. 
Upon arrival, officers noted blood on the door of one of the flats.
Police forced entry to the flat and inside found a "horrific scene of a horrific attack" but no-one was inside the property. 
Officers then went to the flat across the hall, which was connected to the burnt-out car. 
Inside they found three adults and a child.
The court heard that the occupants were arrested on suspicion of murder. Shane Harte was also arrested at a later date and interviewed nine times.
The officer said CCTV footage showed Mr Harte visit the flat on two occasions on the date of Mr Kelly's death. 
Mr Harte arrived 00:08 GMT, at this time witnesses gave an account of him wearing a red puffa coat, and left at 00:28.
Mr Kelly is seen on CCTV entered the flats at 01:14, with Mr Harte returning at 01:45 wearing the same puffa style coat. 
Mr Harte is seen leaving again at 03.21. 
Police said that Andrea Stevenson, a co-accused, made a number of calls after 3am stating there had been a fight and disturbance.
The court heard at 03:45 Gary Scullion and one of the females left the flat. 
The officer said: "We believe this was the start of preparation to remove Mr Kelly's body. We believe the attack happened when he (Mr Harte) was in the flat. He denies seeing Mr Kelly in the flat."
Police say at 04.11 Mr Kelly's body was removed from the flat.
Applying for bail, Mr Harte's defence barrister asked if there was any forensic evidence connecting his client to Mr Kelly's death. 
The officer said the forensic report had not yet been completed.
The defence barrister said Mr Harte's co-accused had signs of injury, adding that "the height of evidence against Mr Harte is that the attack may have taken place when he was in the flat".
The police officer said they were objecting to bail on a number of grounds.
These were namely; concerns around the proposed bail address, concerns that Mr Hart would commit further offences, that he was seen as a flight risk and that he would interfere with witnesses. 
The officer said that clothing connected to Mr Harte had not been recovered and his phone had been reset to factory settings.
He also said that on the day after Mr Kelly's death, Mr Harte and his girlfriend Ms Redden made an unplanned trip to Galway.
However, Mr Harte's defence stated Ms Redden had family in the area and that he had agreed to meet police upon his return.
Refusing bail, District Judge Francis Rafferty said Mr Harte was "not a suitable candidate for bail, with a history of violence, a risk of flight and interference, as well as the suggested disposal of clothing and the factory resetting of his phone".
Earlier in the court sitting, when an update was being given in Ms McClelland's case the court heard that forensic reports are due to be available in mid-to late March and that police are still interviewing witnesses and viewing CCTV.
All five defendants will next appear in court in early March 
