A prison is in danger of losing the battle to intercept smuggled drugs and phones, with "serious repercussions for safety", a report has said.
Drone deliveries and items thrown into HMP Guys Marsh in Dorset are a constant challenge, the jail's Independent Monitoring Board (IMB) said.
Levels of violence were relatively high, the IMB's annual report added.
The Prison Service said the number of assaults was down and the jail was being made more secure.
Inmates brewed alcohol in their cells on a "significant scale" and used synthetic drugs that were smuggled in on impregnated papers, the IMB said.
Prison officers claimed that "up to 75% of prisoners were 'on something'", according to the report which covered the year to the end of November 2023.
Inspectors said they had "real concerns about the effects of persistent drug and alcohol use as drivers of debt and... violence".
However, they said the Prison Service had refused to deal with drone incursions appropriately, despite replacing some windows.
The report said: "The unequal contest is in danger of being lost, with serious repercussions for the safety and wellbeing of the prisoners."
The IMB noted that assaults among inmates were fewer than in the previous year and the jail was "safe for most prisoners".
It said new governor Niall Bryant had a "refreshing vision for the prison, particularly with reference to purposeful activity".
The Board also welcomed the appointment of a manager to support inmates with autism and other neurodiverse conditions.
However, it said staff shortages did not allow for one-to-one working with prisoners.
In a faith room used by Muslim inmates, "ceiling leaks made prayer mats and the carpet sodden" after rain, the report added.
The Prison Service said: "Staff have been working exceptionally hard to ensure HMP Guys Marsh is a safe environment and we are pleased the report highlights this.
"Assaults are down and a number of initiatives have been implemented to reduce self-harm.
"We recognise there is more to do which is why we are boosting staff numbers and installing new and more secure windows in an effort to stop drugs and other contraband from entering the prison." 
HMP Guys Marsh, near Shaftesbury, is a category C training and resettlement prison for men.
Work started in October to expand the jail, adding a further 180 places to the jail's capacity of 505.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2240.
