A goose was allegedly dragged from a pond in Surrey and kicked in the head during an incident in January, an animal charity has said. It was reported the goose was bleeding and struggling to stand in Wood Street Village, near Guildford, after it was alleged one of a group of youngsters had pulled it from the pond near the village green.RSPCA inspector Louis Horton said it was "very distressing", and appealed for anyone with information to contact them. It comes as new figures revealed there have been 514 reports of cruelty to animals in Surrey in the first six months of 2024.
This is lower than the figure over the same time period in 2023, which saw 525 reports made between January and the end of June.However, Karen Colman, head of the RSPCA welfare oversight team, said reports are "on the rise this year" nationally and the charity is "preparing for a difficult period ahead".The RSPCA said there have been 44,879 reports of cruelty to animals across England and Wales in the first six months of 2024. This is more than two per cent higher than the 43,983 calls received during the same period of time last year.In 2023 the charity said it received a report of animal cruelty every five minutes during its busiest summer months. The RSPCA has launched a No Animal Deserves Cruelty summer appeal to tackle the rise. 
Ms Colman said: “Summer is a really challenging time for us - and we’re braced for another busy season on the frontline, but we cannot do this alone.” RSPCA inspector Zoe Ballard added animals are "like us: they feel desperation, confusion and terror". She added: "That’s why as we mark our 200th birthday, we’ve launched this summer cruelty appeal.“Together, we must stand against cruelty and continue to be there for the animals who desperately need our help now. "To rescue them from harm and give them the lives they deserve – free from terror and torment and full of care and kindness.”
Follow BBC Surrey on Facebook, on X. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk, or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250.
