Toy giraffes on a plane, a Roman sausage dog and a sculpture made out of thousands of keyboard keys. 
As 2023 draws to a close, we look back at some of the quirky stories that made the news in Oxfordshire.
Here are some of the highlights:
A photograph capturing a white-legged damselfly's face has been crowned overall winner in a wildlife charity's photography competition.
Harry Berks, 24, from Banbury, took the winning shot at Lamb's Pool nature reserve in Oxfordshire.
The Berks, Bucks and Oxon Wildlife Trust challenged nature lovers of all ages to take pictures at one of its 86 reserves or in their community.
Images were selected in 12 categories, including birds, reptiles and fungi.
A sculpture made up of 50,000 keyboard keys, depicting one of Leonardo Da Vinci's most famous paintings, went on display at an abbey.
The contemporary Last Supper sculpture is currently at Dorchester Abbey.
The Reverend Jane Willis said it "brings together the ancient and historic right into the here and now".
The remains of a tiny Roman dog were discovered at a popular walking spot in the summer.
An archaeological dig at Wittenham Clumps uncovered the 1,800-year-old remains of a 20cm tall pooch.
The animal's remains were unearthed at the site of a villa believed to have been owned by a wealthy Roman family.
Researchers said the dog was one of the smallest found in the UK and was likely to have been a "much-loved pet".
A plane full of hundreds of toy giraffes took to the skies in April.
The 291 seats on the Voyager aircraft were occupied by the cuddly toys as it took off from RAF Brize Norton.
The plane took part in an air-to-air refuelling mission with various RAF aircraft.
People donated to get their giraffes a seat on the flight, raising money for the charity Giraffes On Tour, which supports Great Ormond Street Hospital.
A "very lucky" snake was rescued after it was found dumped by a bin in a park.
Detailed notes were left on the box containing the ball python, including its name - Barry. It was found by a member of the public in Oxford.
The reptile was passed on to the RSPCA, which said it was lucky to have survived the cold.
The charity is appealing for information after the discovery in Rivermead Nature Park in November.
A sparse vintage Christmas tree sold at auction for £2,600, well above its list price of £60 to £80.
The modest tree, with just 25 branches, was gifted in 1920 to Dorothy Grant who kept it until she died in 2014.
Her daughter, Shirley Hall, 84, said she was selling the 31in (79cm) tree as a "humble reminder of 1920s life".
Hansons Auctioneers, in Banbury, said it was an "astonishing" price for "the humblest Christmas tree in the world".
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk.
