Gary Dean MacCune, 26, Fountain, was sentenced to seven to 40 years in prison on charges of breaking and entering into a building with intent, habitual offender, fourth offense, in 51st Circuit Court Tuesday.
Restitution in the amount of 34,897.42 has been estimated for the offense of MacCune and his co-defendant Louis Metheny.
MacCune and Metheny were originally charged on breaking and entering, larceny of a building, possession of firearms by a felon and possession of stolen tools for break-ins.
In addition to this sentence, MacCune had an outstanding retail fraud offense that would be dismissed as part of his plea agreement. Additional restitution would have to be paid in the amount of $235.50 to Walmart for that dismissed retail fraud charge.
MacCune has been lodged in the Mason County Jail for the past nine months waiting on his sentencing, but since he was on parole at the time of the breaking and entering offenses, he will not receive any credit towards this current prison sentence.
“This wasn’t a single offense. Breaking and entering after breaking and entering after breaking and entering. I understand you’re looking at minimum of seven years and that’s a long time,” said Judge Susan K. Sniegowski. “Over this course of time, you guys continued to engage in this course of behavior. You knew that it wouldn’t give you jail credit because you were on parole at the time.”
MacCune said he wishes he could take back his actions.

        
    
“I was in the wrong. I wish I would have changed it, but It’s too late now. I’m sorry,” said a tearful MacCune.
Background of the case
Mason County Sheriff’s Office deputies responded to a reported breaking and entering to a pole building at 11:10 p.m. Aug. 9, 2016 near Mavis Road in Sherman Township.
Shortly thereafter, at 11:56 p.m., deputies responded to an alarm at the Fountain Lumber Company.
During the course of the investigation, deputies were able to identify two suspects and a vehicle believed to be involved.
At 12:38 a.m. Aug. 10, 2016, a deputy spotted a vehicle in Branch Township matching the suspect’s vehicle and initiated a traffic stop. Shortly after, Metheny and MacCune were both arrested.
