A Grade II listed building is being demolished to make way for road improvements to the A428 Black Cat, Bedfordshire, to Caxton Gibbet, Cambridgeshire. The Brook Cottages have stood next to the road since the 18th Century but are in the way of the upgrade to extend the A421 to Caxton Gibbett in Cambridgeshire.It was hoped the cottages could be dismantled and moved to an open air museum,  but National Highways said the structural integrity of the building had deteriorated and it was "deemed to be of low historic value".It said the thatched cottages will not be relocated, but it would work with Historic England to preserve any items of heritage interest.
Formal planning permission for the link between the A421 eastbound carriageway and the A1 northbound carriageway at the Black Cat roundabout was approved by the Secretary of State for Transport in August 2022.To build the approved route, National Highways said it needed to remove the cottages but would preserve items of heritage such as a bread oven door, structural beams, two fireplace lintels and internal fixtures and fittings.
A National Highways spokesperson said: "Since taking ownership of Brook Cottages in August 2023, we have worked with Historic England and Bedford Borough Council, conducting in-depth surveys to evaluate the historical significance and structural condition of the property."These surveys have revealed that the structural integrity of the building has deteriorated over a number of years and as a whole is deemed to be of low historic value. "As a result, we have agreed with Historic England and Bedford Borough Council that Brook Cottages should not be relocated once dismantled."Work will begin on Monday and is expected to take four weeks to complete.
Work to dismantle the site was met with anger from residents who commented on a National Highways Facebook announcement to express disappointment. One person questioned why the cottages had been "neglected to the point where they can no longer be saved". Another said: "These old buildings are part of our national heritage and so many have been lost to development over the last 50 years or so. "When are we going to realise that these historic buildings are irreplaceable?"Historic England has been approached for comment.
Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
