For years, flooding wasn’t an issue at Jennifer Green’s home on the south side of Andrews.
Now, each heavy rain sends Green and other residents of the Georgetown County town into a panic. They wonder whether water will damage their home and how they’ll pay for repairs.
Those were the thoughts running through Green’s head Monday morning when a storm system that developed the night before dumped 7½ inches of rain on the area, turning her driveway into a lake. It marked the third time the town has dealt with flooding in 18 months following the historic flood of October 2015 and Hurricane Matthew.
“When it starts raining it’s like ‘Oh my God, what are we gonna do? Do we have to leave? Where are we going?’” Green said. “It’s depressing because it worries me.”
Last week’s heavy rains moved across the state leaving street flooding and scattered power outages in its wake. While most areas were spared by the inundation that pounded Andrews, portions of Charleston and Berkeley counties saw more than 5 inches of rain, according to the National Weather Service. Nearly 3.06 inches — a daily record — fell in Charleston during high tide, flooding streets and snarling traffic downtown.
The Columbia area saw between 2 and 3 inches, with over 5 inches recorded in other parts of Richland County. Myrtle Beach received under 1 inch. The Pawleys Island area saw 3.46 inches.
It brought back fresh memories and new pain.

        
    
Andrews Mayor Frank McClary said many residents have had enough. Some had just finished repairs from Hurricane Matthew when the storm left up to 2 feet of floodwater around their homes.
McClary said a drainage system that’s been poorly maintained for years is to blame. He’s seen grass growing out of drains. Beavers have built dams in outfall areas.
“This didn’t happen overnight,” he said.
Like many small rural towns, maintenance is divided among the town, the county and the S.C. Department of Transportation. McClary said the responsibility for maintaining drains in the areas most-impacted lies above the municipality’s level.
He and about 15 residents called for solutions and accountability at this week’s Georgetown County Council meeting. County Administrator Sel Hemingway said he will discuss possible improvements with McClary and provide a progress report to the council in a month.
Hemingway hopes to secure mitigation grant funds to conduct an analysis of the drainage system. The municipality doesn’t currently maintain a map of the system’s underground piping. Hemingway said the county’s maintenance is done on a case-by-case basis. Crews in recent months have focused on breaking up beaver dams.
“The uncertainty is the drainage system within the town itself as it relates to the condition of all of the ditches and pipes,” he said.
Juanita Cook watched nervously Monday as water climbed to the storm door of the home she’s lived in for 25 years.
Her residence didn’t sustain significant damage this time but she’s tired of worrying about the toll of a heavy rain in Andrews. She’s shelled out $6,500 over the past few floods and twice replaced her furniture. She said there were no problems in her neighborhood prior to the 1,000-year flood.
“I feel like just getting up and leaving all I’ve worked for. Just leave it. It’s stressful,” Cook said.
Green has thought about moving, too. Flooding has warped her wood floods and her air-conditioning unit no longer works properly. She’s given up on making fixes because she can’t afford it, and her homeowner’s insurance won’t cover the damage. Damage from the recent storm likely won’t meet the threshold for assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
“Now the value of my property and everything is totally gone. The spot was never labeled as a flood zone and when I got there it never flooded like this,” Green said. “I’m hoping something does help and something gets done.”
