MICHIGAN CITY – A Valparaiso man whose drunk driving caused a fatal three-vehicle accident on I-94 in Michigan City in 2013 was sentenced Thursday to probation.
Howard B. Gutenstein, 51, pleaded guilty in April to the lesser included offense of operating while intoxicated resulting in serious bodily injury, a class D felony. Upon his sentencing last week, the charges he faced of class C felony reckless homicide and class A misdemeanor operating while intoxicated endangering a person were dismissed.
Technically, Gutenstein’s sentence is a three-year term in the Indiana Department of Correction; but his plea agreement calls for him to serve the first half – 548 days – of it on probation. The last 548 days are to be served in prison, unless Gutenstein successfully completes the initial probationary period. Should he do so, the second half of his sentence also may be served on probation.
During the first half of his probation, Gutenstein must complete 200 hours of community service, with at least half of those hours donated to organizations whose missions are related to drunk driving, such as the women’s shelter in Valparaiso.
He will receive no credit for the 483 days he served on pretrial supervision, nor for the 957 days he was released on bond, though the court noted he did not incur a single violation during either period.
In addition to probation, Gutenstein must pay a fine of $16.50, court costs in the amount of $183, and a $200 drug and alcohol interdiction fee.

        
    
The deadly crash at the center of Gutenstein’s case occurred shortly after 2 a.m. on April 25, 2013.
He reportedly had been driving his 2006 Audi station wagon erratically – veering on and off the road and between lanes, with speeds varying between 25 and 60 miles per hour – before stopping in the middle of the right lane at the 43 mile marker, heading eastbound.
Then-37-year-old semi-driver George A. Leeth Sr. of Hammond called 911 to report his suspicion of a drunk driver, and parked his refrigerated box trailer hauling perishable foods behind the Audi to tend to Gutenstein, who had gotten out of his vehicle and begun walking around the highway.
Although Leeth had activated his emergency hazard lights, 52-year-old semi-driver Steven Lunn of Olympia Fields, Illinois slammed his ethanol-loaded tanker into the back of Leeth’s truck, pushing it into the Audi.
Lunn had to be extricated and was pronounced dead at the scene. Leeth suffered non-life-threatening injuries. Gutenstein, whose blood alcohol content was later determined to be 0.13, was uninjured.
In November, Leeth was awarded $2.3 million in La Porte Circuit Court for his injuries – torn ligaments in his foot and resulting complications from the surgery he required. Leeth’s attorney said last fall that Leeth’s injuries prohibit him from being eligible to work as a truck driver according to Department of Transportation standards.
The judgment also determined fault in the accident to belong 53 percent to Lunn; 14 percent to Lunn’s employer, Langer Transport Corporation; and 33 percent to Gutenstein.
