Tributes have been paid to a former BBC TV presenter who died on Monday.Beccy Barr, who worked for BBC North West Tonight before leaving in 2019 to join Lancashire Fire and Rescue Service, was diagnosed with incurable abdominal cancer in 2023.The 46-year-old, from Lancaster, was also a volunteer for Girlguiding - receiving her 10-year service award in 2020 and even coming up with a new guiding challenge through her work with the fire service.Those who knew her paid tribute to her "passion and energy" and called her an "inspiration to everybody".
Kelly Hunter, executive manager of Girlguiding North West, said Ms Barr got in touch with her several years ago regarding her desire to create a challenge badge for girls."I think originally it was for careers and showing girls that they could absolutely do whatever they wanted to do with their lives and their careers," Ms Hunter said."Over the years it sort of developed even more to it actually being related to her work with the fire service about disaster recovery and how girls could learn skills to deal with any kind of challenge, any kind of disaster over the course of their lives."She always had a smile on her face and so much passion and energy she was such an inspiration to everybody."
Ms Barr was a long-standing member of Girlguiding, receiving her 10-year service award in 2020."Beccy was inspirational in everything that she did. She was so much fun, she had so much energy she was so inspiring," Ms Hunter added."She really was an ambassador who just showed every girl in Girlguiding that they could do anything they put their mind to."It's so very sad we're so upset here at Girlguiding NWE and just want to send loads of love and condolences to her friends and family."Former rugby league player, Adrian Morley, climbed Mount Kilimanjaro with Ms Barr in 2015 for charity.Ms Barr covered the challenge for North West tonight - taking part in the Guinness World Record for the world’s highest game of rugby."Out of all the parties she probably did it [the climb] the easiest," Mr Morley said."She was brilliant, full of energy, full of life, full of zest. She left us in slip streams when we were climbing."She was great, a great member of the team, great fun. I just remember great, great moments and great company.
As well as tributes from her friends and former colleague, BBC viewers got in touch to share their memories of Ms Barr.Jea Brierley wrote in to say "what an amazingly talented and passionate person Becky was.... I was sad when she left journalism for a fire fighting career but have never forgotten her".Stuart Jones said he believed she was "one of those rare humans who could lift the atmosphere of a room simply by entering it".Audrey Sheen from Macclesfield called Ms Barr "a real inspiration" for changing career and said she was "a beacon for all. She followed her heart and deserved better".Andrew Walmsley said: "Such a sad loss of a young and talented life. Becky was always a breath of fresh air and joy. She brightened our screens and had so much more to offer in her new chosen career and beyond."
Listen to the best of BBC Radio Lancashire on Sounds and follow BBC Lancashire on Facebook, X and Instagram. You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
