The famous carpet changed colour in Hollywood for this year's Oscars - it was described as champagne, instead of being the traditional red. But the glamour on show was the same as ever.
Cate Blanchett had the eighth Oscar nomination of her career. Her elegant blue velvet outfit featured a ribbon made by refugees as part of an initiative from the United Nations refugee agency.
Everything Everywhere All At Once star Michelle Yeoh, who arrived in a white fringe Dior gown accented with diamonds, beat Blanchett to the award for best actress.
Michelle Williams was also nominated for best actress - the fifth Oscar nod of her career - for playing Steven Spielberg's mother in The Fabelmans. She opted for an embellished white Chanel dress with a sheer overlay dotted with crystals.
Lady Gaga, who performed her song Hold My Hand from Top Gun: Maverick, arrived in a black Versace dress with a sheer corset bodice - which extended rather low.
Rihanna also sang at the ceremony, performing Lift Me Up from Black Panther: Wakanda Forever. Her Alaia outfit had leather straps and train, and more sheer mesh showing off her baby bump.
British actress Florence Pugh went for a ruffled statement gown accompanied by black shorts and platform shoes, plus a striking silver necklace and two-tone hair design.
Irish star Paul Mescal pulled off a 1970s vibe with his white Gucci tuxedo and flared trousers. He was nominated for best actor for Aftersun.
Jamie Lee Curtis won the first Oscar of her career, and sparkled in a crystal and sequin-embellished Dolce and Gabbana floor-length gown - which could be described as champagne-coloured. After the runway's colour change, she joked: "Their carpet is going to match my drapes."
She also posted a photo of herself with 16 people who helped make the dress - which she said was just part of the Italian team behind it.
Stephanie Hsu is Curtis' co-star in Everything Everywhere All At Once, and was also nominated for best supporting actress. She went for a coral classic Valentino ballgown.
Angela Bassett, who was nominated for best supporting actress for playing Queen Ramonda in Black Panther: Wakanda Forever, was wrapped in a royal shade of purple.
Ana de Armas, who was also up for best actress, for playing Marilyn Monroe in Blonde, went for a sparkling, simple bodice, flowing into frilled layers.
Dwayne Johnson said his daughters helped pick his outfit - a shiny pale pink tuxedo jacket by Dolce & Gabbana - while Emily Blunt had a minimalist all-white look with detached sleeves, by Valentino.
Brendan Fraser, accompanied by girlfriend Jeanne Moore, was named best actor for his comeback role in The Whale.
Cara Delevingne brought some red back to the carpet in a dramatic Elie Saab gown.
Halle Berry, in white satin Tamara Ralph with rose gold decoration, presented an award, 21 years after she won best actress.
Avengers and WandaVision star Elizabeth Olsen's black Givenchy halter neck design added a hint of gothic glamour to the classic black dress.
Malala Yousafzai arrived in a shimmering silver Ralph Lauren gown with ruched waist.
The Nobel Peace Prize laureate was at the ceremony as executive producer of Stranger at the Gate, which was nominated for best documentary short.
Zoe Saldana was among those representing Avatar: The Way of Water, which was nominated for four awards including best picture.
Her Avatar co-star Sigourney Weaver complemented the Oscars statuettes in her stylish and shining V-neck gold-and-white patterned dress.
M3gan actress Allison Williams' Giambattista Valli outfit included a sheer dress with floral-jewelled design and feathered hem, with a voluminous candy pink gown extension.
Top Gun: Maverick star Jennifer Connelly, who was also among the ceremony's presenters, wore a Louis Vuitton design that added a sparkling neck structure to simple, straight black.
Eva Longoria wore an eye-catching and intricately-jewelled Zuhair Murad design with ribbon detail from her neck.
The decision to change the red carpet after 62 years was made by a creative consultant, who explained that a "champagne" coloured carpet would help with "the change from daytime arrivals to an elegant evening setting".
In a reference to Will Smith's slap last year, host Jimmy Kimmel quipped beforehand: "I think the decision to go with a champagne carpet rather than a red carpet shows how confident we are that no blood will be shed."
All images subject to copyright.
