A proposed green energy hub in north Devon could house one of Europe's largest hydrogen plants, experts say.
Levelling Up funding totalling £15.6m has been set aside by Torridge District Council to build the Clean Maritime Innovation Centre at Appledore.
Bosses said the centre would work with ship builders to build clean energy vessels.
The Tower Group is proposing to build a hydrogen production plant nearby to supply the fuel for these vessels.
Alex King, chief executive, said: "We are already behind the curve. 
"We need the boats in the water now and the infrastructure already being built. 
"We know there will be around 200 new vessels with zero emissions required off the coast of Devon and Cornwall and South Wales by the mid 2030s."
Building of the centre is due to start in late 2024 and finish by early 2026 - although plans still need to be approved.
Torridge District Council said: "The development will establish Torridge and wider northern Devon as a global-leading research and development destination for innovation in clean maritime technology and support industries."
The Tower Group has submitted documentation to Torridge District Council to outline its intent to build the hydrogen plant, with a planning application expected to be submitted soon.
Prof Chris Smith, from the Centre for Future Clean Mobility at the University of Exeter, said: "If this happens and we can demonstrate we can design, build and power these clean ships to the rest of the world, I know there will be a huge market and hundreds of millions of pounds of investment.
"The plan is to do everything from the innovation of clean vessels, to building those vessels, but also to provide clean fuel to make hydrogen and other clean fuels to power those boats."
Mr King said the initial pilot plant would be a 5 megawatts plant, which could supply power to two boats. 
He said the plan was for the plant to expand to 50 megawatts, covering a 10-15 acre site.
To match their full ambitions he said 500 megawatts would be generated on a 80-100 acre site, which both Prof Smith and Mr King said would make it one of Europe's largest.
Tower Group said a timeframe was yet to be confirmed.
In the future, the hydrogen plant hopes to supply fuel to the vessels servicing the floating offshore wind project in the Celtic Sea.
The Crown Estate is currently finalising plans for what will be one of the largest floating offshore wind projects in the world.
The Centre for Future Clean Mobility is also working with companies across the UK and Europe to create new electric and hybrid-powered vehicles and ships.
Follow BBC Devon on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk
