The south-east of England is braced for potential temperatures over 30C (86F) as the hot spell reached its third day. The highest UK temperature of the year so far was recorded on Tuesday at exactly 30C in Chertsey, Surrey, according to the Met Office.Kent, Sussex and Surrey are all under yellow heat health alerts, which will remain in force in eight regions until 17:00 BST on Thursday.A yellow alert - issued by the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) - indicates that weather conditions could pose a risk to those who are particularly vulnerable.
Staff at Port Lympne Hotel and Reserve, near Hythe, Kent, have been helping their gorillas stay cool with showers throughout the day.Keeper Fern Thomas climbs to the top of their enclosure to pour water on them using a specially converted bucket.She said: "We've been doing these gorilla showers a few times a day, particularly in this heatwave, just to cool them down and give them the option to drink some water as well. “They get about 60-70% of their water from their food and they don’t like to swim but it’s just to give them a chance to cool off.”
Surrey Fire and Rescue Service told BBC Radio Surrey it was braced for wildfires in the heat. Fire investigations officer Matt Oakley said: "We have invested in a huge amount of specialist appliances and have upped our training for crews."At Frensham Great Pond, Surrey's inland beach, locals were keeping cool in the water. Brian Barry, from Farnham, said: "It’s nice to have water around in our local area to be able to swim in.”His wife Jane said: “I just love the serenity, it’s quite a clean pond but whenever we come here there’s a bit of wildlife."Mid Sussex District Council has informed its residents that bin collections are starting at 06:00 BST from Wednesday for the rest of the week due to the heat. A spokesperson said: "This allows our crews to work during the cooler parts of the day."
Follow BBC Kent on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250.
