When the Hatters were promoted to the Premier League last May, many people around the world heard about a club called Luton Town for the first time.
On Wednesday, 24-year-old Daiki Hashioka, Luton's first Japanese player, made his debut against Manchester City after signing in January from Belgian side, Sint-Truidense V.V.
So, what does Japan's growing Luton fan base think of the now-internationally recognised side?
Hatters living thousands of miles away from Kenilworth Road have shared their stories.
Each Japanese fan has a unique reason for joining the country's growing Hatters fan base.
Comedian Sweets Nanako only recently started watching Premier League games after a recommendation from his Arsenal-supporting friend.
Three things attracted the Tokyo resident to Luton: Their spirit, their passion and their nickname.
He explained: "I wear a pancake hat as part of my stage costume, I felt a sense of kinship when I learned that Luton Town's nickname was Hatters."
The 37-year-old said he had enjoyed watching games this season as the team "never give up until the end".
"Lately, we have been winning more games and getting better results, so I think the motivation of the players is increasing with each game, which is having a positive impact on the team," he added.
He praised the close bond between the club and the fans: "The relationship between Luton Town players and fans is as indispensable as scones and clotted cream."
Mr Nanako was thrilled to hear Daiki Hashioka was joining the Bedfordshire side.
"I'm happy that a Japanese player is joining my favourite team, I'm sure the number of Luton fans in Japan will increase thanks to Hashioka!"
Ryo Kikuchi, 30, lives in north-eastern Japan, in the Miyagi Prefecture, a 90-minute train ride from Tokyo.
The region is home to Japanese football team Vegalta Sendai, which was founded in 1988, the same year the Hatters defeated Arsenal 3-2 in the Littlewoods Challenge Cup Final.
Although Mr Kikuchi had always enjoyed watching football, he did not have a team of his own to support until he came across Luton this season.
He said: "A friend of mine is a Chelsea FC fan and I was looking for a team I could root for as passionately as he does.
"In the midst of this, an interesting team was promoted to the Premier League this season."
The 30-year-old was drawn to the club's underdog reputation as they "fearlessly face higher-ranked teams" in a stadium with an atmosphere "unlike any in Japan".
Initially he thought "it might not be easy for Luton Town to remain in the Premier League" but he admitted each match left him feeling "energised".
He said: "Barkley's passing, Ogbene's speed, Morris's scoring ability, Adebayo's physicality, Doughty's offensive sense, Lockyer's passion... and no-one slacks on defence."
"I began to realise that staying up was no longer just a dream. Before I knew it, I became a fan who cheered on the games every week."
In 2017, Luton Town Football Club began their fourth consecutive year in League Two, the season that would see them finish in second place and promoted to League One.
Watching online from Tokyo was Kei Shiroguchi, a Jack Wilshere fan, who discovered the former England midfielder started his career in the Luton Town youth programme.
The now-43-year-old, who runs an account on X called Hatters Japan, said he became "addicted to Luton's history and club character".
He explained: "We have a strong process and enthusiastic people, I like the people of Luton. People build clubs, money does not make a club."
Mr Shiroguchi travelled from Tokyo to Kenilworth Road in 2022 to watch as Rob Edwards secured his first victory as manager in a game against Norwich City.
He was also in the stands at Loftus Road when the Hatters triumphed over Queens Park Rangers 3-0 and watched Reece Burke score a late winner against Huddersfield Town in the same season.
"Undefeated in my UK days! Domestic fans call me 'lucky charm'," he laughed.
He praised the team for their performance in the Premier League, but reserved most of his praise for Japanese player Daiki Hashioka.
Mr Shiroguchi explained: "He grew up in a family of athletes and is very physical, he is solid defensively and strong in the air.
"Above all, he has a great capacity for serious hard work. He also has a very good personality."
In May, a wave of orange swept into Wembley for the play-off final between Luton Town and Coventry City.
Many had travelled down the M1, but Fumiaki Sukemune flew in from Saitama, just outside Tokyo.
"My English teacher was from Luton, he introduced me to the team 10 years ago," he explained.
He enjoyed his experience with Luton fans so much he returned to watch the games against Newcastle, Sheffield and Chelsea in December.
When asked if he was pleased with how the team was doing, he simply said: "Yes! Amazing!"
The 26-year-old was excited by the signing of Daiki Hashioka, especially as the right-back comes from Saitama himself.
"He is from my home town, and my home club, which is Urawa Reds. I'm very happy," he beamed.
After watching the 24-year-old run on to the pitch for the FA Cup match on Wednesday, he said: "I think it's a good debut. I'm looking forward to the league."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
