The DUP leader Sir Jeffrey Donaldson has rejected any suggestion he has changed his mind about becoming an MLA in Lagan Valley.
Today his party announced Paul Rankin had been Co opted to replace Edwin Poots who has moved to South Belfast.
He has replaced Christopher Stalford who died last month.
 Sir Jeffrey told BBC News NI that it was still his intention to run in the Assembly election in May.
He said "I want to seek a mandate from the people of Lagan Valley".
He added "I am going to lead our team forward in the Assembly election".
He said he wanted to see "a strong unionist victory".
The MP denied any suggestion that he was not putting his name forward today as it would mean he would have to leave Westminster and trigger a parliamentary by-election.
He said: "I am going to the electorate on 5 May. I am putting my name forward. The idea that I or the DUP are running away from the electorate is for the fairies." 
He said "we are seeking a fresh mandate".
He would not be drawn on the number of candidates the DUP would field in Lagan Valley saying the constituency association has not selected its candidates yet. 
It comes as a long-serving Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) councillor is to be the new assembly member (MLA) in Lagan Valley.
Paul Rankin, from Dromore, has been a DUP councillor on Armagh City, Banbridge and Craigavon Borough council since May 2000.
He will replace Agriculture Minister Edwin Poots, who has moved constituencies to Belfast South.
Mr Poots replaced party colleague Christopher Stalford, who died in February at the age of 39.
Sir Jeffrey said Mr Rankin had a "sterling record of hard work and delivery for the people of this area, with over 20 years of experience as an elected representative".
With every respect to the new DUP MLA for Lagan Valley, most interest will focus on who he's not.
Paul Rankin is not Sir Jeffrey Donaldson, so why not is the question?
Ever since he announced his decision to return to lead his party from Stormont, Sir Jeffrey has been a hostage to fortune.
Allowing him to do both jobs at the same time would have allowed him two years' breathing space.
But when the government somewhat rudely withdrew that option it left him with a decision to make, one he is still reserving the right to sit on.
And the uncertainty around the DUP's ability to retain the first ministers job as well as the stability of Stormont post-election is complicating matters more than a bit.
Had he filled the vacancy left by Edwin Poots' departure to Belfast South himself, he would have had to resign as an MP within eight days. 
This way he can buy time until elected, as he surely will be, in early May.
It's what he will do then that is the really interesting point.
Quit the security of Westminster or resign his MLA seat and wait until the turbulence has cleared, thus avoiding a tricky by-election?
We shall soon see.
