CHATTOGRAM, Bangladesh (AP) — Star legspinner Rashid Khan returned to Afghanistan’s starting XI on Wednesday and took two wickets as his team beat host Bangladesh by 17 runs under the DLS method in the series-opening ODI. 
Afghanistan’s three-pronged spin attack — Rashid, Mujeeb Ur Rahman and Mohammad Nabi — contained the runs and shared five wickets as Bangladesh scored a mediocre 169-9 in a match that was initially reduced to 43 overs after rain halted the game twice.
Afghanistan, which won the toss, faced a target of 164 in 43 overs and the visitors reached 83-2 in 21.4 overs before rain again intervened for good. Afghanistan was 17 runs ahead of the DLS par score and was eventually declared the winner with no further play possible.
Rashid, one of the leading bowlers in short-form cricket, missed the one-off test match last month which Bangladesh won by a 546-run margin. 
Back in action, Rashid (2-21) and offspinner Mujeeb (2-23) sparked Bangladesh’s collapse with pacer Fazalhaq Farooqi claiming 3-24 in 8.4 overs. 
Towhid Hridoy stood tall for Bangladesh amid the batting debacle to hit 51.
“We had a good start but we lost back-to-back wickets,” Bangladesh captain Tamim Iqbal said. “When you put on 160-odd, it is not enough on any day. The wicket was a bit tricky and, if we had added 50 more runs, it would have been good.”
Farooqi broke through with the wicket of Tamim, who by his own admission was not 100% fit for the game. Tamim (13) edged a delivery behind. Inform Najmul Hossain started with a brace of boundaries as Bangladesh appeared to hit back. While Farooqi kept it tight, Najmul and Liton Das dealt with debutant Saleem Safi (0-36 in 4.2 overs) with ease but the introduction of the spinners brought success for the Afghans.

        
    
Mujeeb dismissed Liton who pulled the ball to deep-backward square for 26 while Najmul perished to a sweep shot for 12.
Shakib Al Hasan and Hridoy started rebuilding the innings but the rain break seemed to affect concentration. A half-hearted cover drive from Shakib led to his dismissal after scoring 15 off 38 deliveries with Bangladesh at 109-4.
Rashid then came on to remove Mushfiqur Rahim (1) and Afif Hossain (4) in quick succession to leave Bangladesh at 128-6. Farooqi came back for his second spell to get rid of Mehidy Hasan for 5.
Hridoy clipped Farooqi towards long-on for two to reach his third half-century off 67 balls. But two balls later, Farooqi dismissed him to take revenge.
Rashid, Mujeeb and Nabi (1-25) bowled a combined total of 24 overs taking 5-69.
With rain in the forecast, Afghanistan made a watchful start, mostly concentrating on not losing wickets. Ibrahim Zadran and Rahmanullah Gurbaz added 54 runs in 15.4 overs before left-arm spinner Shakib dismissed Gurbaz for 22.
Zadran was 41 not out, always keeping his team ahead of the required run rate.
“(We) bowled according to the plans,” Afghanistan captain Hashmatullah Shahidi said. “The way Gurbaz and Ibrahim started, it was good. They played according to the situation and gave us a good start in the first 10 overs.”
Afghanistan had handed debut to Saleem in place of Gulbadin Naib in the only change from its last ODI against Sri Lanka. Bangladesh was bolstered by the returns of Shakib, paceman Taskin Ahmed and batter Afif Hossain. 
AP cricket: 
https://apnews.com/hub/cricket
 and 
https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
