Highlights: 
Recap AP’s coverage of the global outage
.
Air travelers became the face of the 
widespread technology outage
 Friday as they posted pictures on social media of crowds of people stranded at airports in Europe and the United States.
In the U.S., American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, United Airlines, Spirit Airlines and Allegiant Air had all their 
flights grounded
 for varying lengths of time. Airlines said the outage affected many systems, including those used to check in passengers, calculate aircraft weight and communicate with crews in the air. United, American and Delta issued waivers to let customers change travel plans. 
By early evening on the East Coast, nearly 2,800 U.S. flights had been canceled and almost 10,000 others delayed, according to tracking platform FlightAware. Worldwide, about 4,400 flights were canceled. 
Delta and its regional affiliates had canceled 1,300 flights, or more than one-fourth of their schedule, according to aviation-data firm Cirium. United and United Express canceled more than 550 flights, 13% of their schedule, and American Airlines’ network canceled more than 450 flights, 8% of its schedule.
The outage, which began overnight, was blamed on a software update that 
cybersecurity firm CrowdStrike
 sent to Microsoft computers of its corporate customers, including many airlines. 
CrowdStrike said it 
identified the problem
 and was fixing it, but the damage had been done: Hundreds of thousands of travelers were stranded. 
“This is going to have ripple effects for probably a few days at least,” said Jesse Neugarten, the founder and CEO of travel-search site Dollar Flight Club.

        
    
That’s because many flights are sold out or have just a few empty seats during the peak summer vacation season, which leaves airlines with less room to accommodate passengers from canceled flights. 
The 
Transportation Security Administration
 screened nearly 2.96 million travelers at U.S. airports on Thursday, the third-biggest day in TSA’s history, and Fridays are usually busier than Thursdays.
Here are suggestions for people experiencing flight problems.
Airlines should rebook passengers automatically, but that could take much longer as carriers recover from the outage, so passengers will have to take more initiative. And be more creative.
“People who are already at the airport usually go up to the help desk, but there’s a line of 500 people. It’s going to take all day,” Neugarten said. He suggested calling the airline and using an international help-desk number, if there is one, to reach an agent more quickly.
Another tactic is to post a few words to the airline on the social platform X. Many airlines have staffers who will help rebook passengers who contact the carrier through social media. 
Customers wait at a departure area for Spirit Airlines at LaGuardia Airport in New York on Friday, July 19, 2024, after a faulty CrowdStrike update caused a major internet outage for computers running Microsoft Windows. (AP Photo/Yuki Iwamura)
Use your airline’s app — it may have more-current information about flight status than delays and cancellations displayed in the airport terminal.
In the U.S., Southwest and Alaska Airlines said they were not affected by the outage. However, since it’s summer vacation season, those airlines have a limited number of available seats left.
Neugarten suggested checking nearby airports for available flights, which might require changing airlines.
Long delays and some cancellations could drag into Saturday and Sunday. Check the flight status on your airline’s app or website frequently.
Some airlines are telling passengers to arrive as much as three hours before their scheduled departure times. Many experienced travelers scoff at such warnings; this might be a good time to take them seriously.
The TSA app lets travelers look up the estimated wait time at their airport.
U.S. Transportation Secretary 
Pete Buttigieg
 said the Federal Aviation Administration’s systems, including air traffic control, were not affected by the outage. TSA said its screening of passengers was not affected either.
Passengers wait on flights at Hartsfield Jackson International Airport in Atlanta, Friday, July 19, 2024. (AP Photo/Ben Gray)
Passengers whose flights are canceled are entitled to a full refund in the form of payment they used to buy the ticket. That’s true even if the ticket was sold as non-refundable.
A refund may be acceptable to travelers who no longer want to make the trip, but many people just want another way to reach their destination, and buying a last-minute replacement ticket could cost more than the refund will cover.
Airports in Amsterdam, Berlin and Zurich had particularly high numbers of canceled flights. When airlines in Europe are responsible for a cancellation or delay, travelers are entitled to compensation under a regulation known as EU261, but that rule has an exception for disruptions caused by “extraordinary circumstances” beyond the airline’s control.
There is no similar provision for compensation under U.S. law, and airlines set their own policies for reimbursing stranded travelers for things like hotels and meals. 
However, the Transportation Department appears to be taking the view that the cancellations and delays were within the airlines’ control, and it is pressuring carriers to 
cover passengers’ costs
.
“We have reminded the airlines of their responsibilities to take care of passengers if they experience major delays,” Buttigieg said.
Trade group Airlines for America said carriers hit by the outage were offering rebooking, vouchers, refunds and other help “during this regrettable situation outside of the airlines’ control.”
The Transportation Department fined Southwest $35 million last year as part of a 
$140 million settlement
 to resolve an investigation into nearly 17,000 canceled flights in December 2022.
The department maintains a 
“dashboard”
 showing what each airline promises to cover during travel disruptions. 
