WASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on the Mueller report on Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election (all times local):
4:05 p.m.
House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler says an April 2 deadline still stands after Attorney General William Barr said he would deliver a redacted version of special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia report by mid-April.
House Democrats have suggested they may subpoena the report if it is not delivered by next week. Barr said in a letter to Nadler and other lawmakers Friday that he would send the report to Congress “by mid-April, if not sooner.”
Nadler also says Democrats want to see the full report, not a redacted version.
Barr said in his letter that he would be available to talk to the House panel on May 2 and the Senate a day earlier. Nadler says he will take that date “under advisement,” but would like Barr to come sooner.
3:17 p.m.
Attorney General William Barr has told Congress to expect a version of special counsel Robert Mueller’s report on the Russia investigation by mid-April.
The attorney general sent a letter Friday to Sen. Lindsey Graham and Rep. Jerrold Nadler, the chairmen of the Senate and House Judiciary Committees.
Barr says he wants the public to be able to read Mueller’s findings. He says Mueller’s report is nearly 400 pages long.
Mueller officially concluded his investigation last Friday and submitted his confidential report to Barr.

        
    
Barr’s summary of Mueller’s report said it didn’t find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Donald Trump’s campaign to swing the 2016 presidential election.
Mueller reached no conclusion about whether Trump sought to obstruct the investigation. But Barr said he and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein determined there was insufficient evidence to conclude Trump obstructed justice.
6 a.m.
Democrats have been intensifying their demands for Robert Mueller’s full report after learning the special counsel’s findings from his Trump-Russia investigation run to more than 300 pages.
President Donald Trump boasted of total exoneration based on a four-page summary by his attorney general.
House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler was told by Attorney General William Barr that there’s no intention of giving the confidential report to Congress immediately as he redacts grand jury testimony and other elements.
Democrats say they may subpoena the report if it’s not forthcoming by their Tuesday deadline, which Barr has said will not be met.
