TORONTO (AP) — Nikolai Kulemin scored two goals and the Toronto Maple Leafs earned a 4-1 win over the Dallas Stars on Monday night.
He has seven goals on the season, tying him for second on the team with linemate Clarke MacArthur.
Tyler Bozak and Kris Versteeg had the other goals for the Maple Leafs (8-9-3), who got 21 saves from Jonas Gustavsson.
Brad Richards scored for Dallas (10-8-1).
Gustavsson continued his strong play in relief of J.S. Giguere, who has missed three games with a minor groin injury. The Leafs backup has stopped 87 of 91 shots during that stretch.
Kulemin opened the scoring while doing something coach Ron Wilson has been preaching all season — standing in front of the net.
Luke Schenn’s point shot was tipped by both Mikhail Grabovski and Kulemin, leaving Kari Lehtonen with little hope of stopping the puck at 10:52 of the first period.
That wasn’t the case on Kulemin’s second goal. The Stars goaltender let out a rebound before Kulemin connected on his second chance at 14:05 of the second period.
Richards made it 2-1 just 86 seconds later. He one-timed a shot past Gustavsson after teammate Steve Ott made a nice play to carry the puck around the net and found him with a backhand pass.
Toronto restored its two-goal lead before the intermission when Nazem Kadri picked up his fourth assist in five games this season. The Leafs rookie found Bozak, who beat Lehtonen high at 17:07 of the second period.

        
    
Kadri narrowly missed scoring the first goal of his NHL career in the third period after beating a defenseman and getting off a shot while falling to the ice. Lehtonen made a nice stop on the play.
Even still, Toronto’s offense has improved with the 20-year-old in the lineup. Since Kadri was called up from the AHL on Nov. 12, the Leafs are 3-2-0 and have scored 15 goals in five games.
Notes: Toronto used the same lineup for a third straight game ... Leafs captain Dion Phaneuf sat out a ninth game since suffering a deep cut to his right leg ... Dallas forward Loui Eriksson has played 235 straight games going back to Dec. 7, 2007. ... Richards, a pending unrestricted free agent, on rumors the Leafs may try to trade for him this season: “When the time comes, if that’s an option, Toronto is always a No. 1 hockey destination. It would be great being a Canadian playing in Toronto, but we’re not even close to that bridge yet.”
