C'mere, did you ever hear the one about the doctor who wanted to be a stand-up comedian? 
This is not the set up for a joke, but it is what Mustafa Saed is all about. 
He was one of eight amateur comedians recently trading punchlines for laughs at a comedy battle in Dungannon, County Tyrone.
The stand-up upstarts put their best 10-minute set in front of an audience for a chance to win big. 
The prize? An opening slot at the Dungannon Comedy Festival this weekend, appearing alongside Northern Ireland stand-up big hitters like Colin Geddis, Colin Murphy and Diona Doherty.
For Mustafa - his stage name - being a doctor may be the day job, but telling jokes for a living is the dream.
"I was born in Dungannon, my dad was a doctor here so I became a doctor - but I always wanted to be a comedian," he said.
"My dad was like: 'I'll support anything you want, as long as it's medicine.'
"I think being a comedian has actually made me a better doctor, it's given me the ability to connect with patients."
Jazmynne Sierra, who is originally from Florida but now calls County Antrim home, was the competition's only woman contestant. 
"I've been here for three years now and it's unlike any place I've ever lived before," she said.
"I think every comedian is just a little bit crazy to get up to do it, I'd say most of us off stage are a bit awkward, but then we get on stage and then adrenaline kicks in, we're different people."
Nathan Crothers, a stand-up newcomer, travelled from Belfast for the competition.
"I've only started in comedy recently, so the more stage time you can give to comedians to test their material the better," he said.
Stephen Campbell from Newry added: "I actually opened the comedy battle, so it's a lot of pressure.
"But you go up and try and be funny and just treat it like another gig and try to enjoy it."
The comedy battle took place at The Space, a previously overgrown and disused piece of land in Dungannon town centre.
It has been revamped as an area for markets and local festival events.  
The event was the brainchild of Mandy Cavlin, from Dungannon Enterprise Centre.
"It's great to do creative things in The Space, we've had things like pop-up cinema events, but a comedy event like this is a first," she said.
"There's a great history of comedy in this area, so we really just wanted to give those people who are starting out a platform."
Indeed, County Tyrone is no stranger to producing comedic talent. 
Dungannon-born Birdy Sweeney broke into the local comedy club circuit back in the 1950s, continuing to work as a comedian for more than 30 years before making his way into TV and film.
His acting credits included Father Ted, Ballykissangel and Oscar-winning film The Crying Game.
Then there is Kevin McAleer, who hails from a small farm near Omagh.
He might now be best known for his role as Uncle Colm in the Channel 4 hit Derry Girls, but during his 40-year comedy career he was renowned for his deadpan tales told in a typical Tyrone drawl.
Meanwhile, in recent years, Omagh-born comedian Aaron McCann has performed at some of Northern Ireland's biggest venues. 
He co-hosts a popular podcast with comedy star Colin Geddis, who now also calls County Tyrone his home and has played several shows at Belfast's SSE Arena.
For one of the judges of the comedy battle, getting the chance to get on stage is the most important thing.
Talal Jomar, whose family moved from Syria to County Tyrone in 1995, is a regular at Lavery's Comedy Club in Belfast and has supported some of Irish comedy's biggest names. 
"Obviously living in a rural area or in the sticks, as we call it, you don't always know how to get started," he said.
"There can sometimes be a perception that comedy nights only happen in Belfast, Derry or even Omagh, so that's why events like this are really important.
"So it's about letting people know that you don't have to drive 45 minutes up the road to find it, comedy is on your doorstep."
The 35-year-old comic is part of the Dungannon Comedy Festival line-up and will be joined by the comedy battle's winner - Cathaoir O'Hagan from County Antrim.
"It's just nice to get a gig and perform anywhere you can," he said.
"It's just a lot of craic, and it's something I just love doing, so I'll take any chance I get to go on stage and hopefully make people laugh."
