NEW YORK (AP) — Left fielder Matt Vierling threw out the speedy Starling Marte at the plate to end the ninth and the Philadelphia Phillies showed off sharp fielding in beating the New York Mets 2-1 in 10 innings Friday night.
In the sixth inning, Phillies third baseman Alec Bohm made a barehanded, off-balance throw to get Marte at first and pitcher Ranger Suárez snared a comebacker by Francisco Lindor. In the 10th, Bohm hit a sacrifice fly for the go-ahead run.
The Mets had a six-game winning streak stopped and also lost infielders Jeff McNeil and Eduardo Escobar to early injuries. McNeil exited after grounding out in the second with a right thumb laceration and Escobar departed with left side tightness.
The Mets lead the NL East and the Phillies, second in the wild-card race, are 9 1/2 games behind New York with Atlanta in between them.
In the ninth, Vierling caught a shallow flyball by pinch-hitter Daniel Vogelbach and threw out Marte at the plate.
Bohm’s go-ahead sacrifice fly came against Mychal Givens (6-3).
Max Scherzer struck out six and allowed three of his nine hits in the opening inning when the Phillies scored their first run on Bohm’s RBI single. 
Seranthony Domínguez (6-3) earned the win and David Robertson tossed a perfect 10th for his 16th save and second with Philadelphia.
BOSTON (AP) — J.D. Martinez had three hits, including a game-tying RBI single in the ninth, and Tommy Pham hit a walk-off single in the 10th to lead last-place Boston past Aaron Judge and AL East-leading New York.

        
    
New York pitchers retired 12 straight Boston batters before closer Clay Holmes walked two with one out in the ninth and then gave up Martinez’s single up the middle.
Judge, who hit his major league-leading 46th home run in the third inning, reached base for the fourth time when he was walked to lead off the 10th. But Garrett Whitlock fanned Josh Donaldson and Gleyber Torres to end the threat.
Whitlock (3-2) struck out three and walked one in two innings. 
Lou Trivino (1-7) allowed two hits and recorded one out for the Yankees, who have lost three straight and eight of nine.
WASHINGTON (AP) — Juan Soto had two hits and got a standing ovation in his return to Washington, and San Diego beat the Nationals after Padres star Fernando Tatis Jr. was suspended 80 games for a positive drug test.
Soto was traded to San Diego on Aug. 2, a deal that became even more significant when the Padres learned that Tatis would miss the rest of the season and the first 32 games next year.
San Diego starter Mike Clevinger (4-4) allowed one run on three hits in five innings, walking four. Brandon Drury went 3 for 4, hitting his 23rd homer in the eighth inning, and Trent Grisham hit his 14th homer, a three-run shot in the fifth.
Cory Abbott (0-2) pitched four innings and allowed four hits and three runs.
ARLINGTON, Texas (AP) — Star rookie Julio Rodriguez got two hits in his return to the lineup and Seattle took over the first wild-card position in the American League by beating Texas.
The 21-year-old Rodriguez had missed the Mariners’ previous 11 games with a wrist injury. He hit a tiebreaking, opposite-field single to shallow right with the bases loaded in the fourth inning. He was the first batter to face Jose Leclerc, who relieved Taylor Hearn (5-7).
George Kirby (4-3) allowed two runs in 5 2/3 innings on seven hits with five strikeouts and one walk. It was the rookie’s second straight win.
The victory, combined with Toronto’s loss to Cleveland, gave the Mariners a half-game lead over the Blue Jays.
TORONTO (AP) — Cal Quantrill pitched seven shutout innings and won his fifth straight decision, and Josh Naylor hit a two-run home run as surging Cleveland beat Toronto for its sixth straight win.
Cleveland’s José Ramirez hit a three-run home run, his 22nd, and finished with four RBIs as the Guardians roughed up Blue Jays right-hander José Berríos (8-5), who allowed eight runs and eight hits in four innings.
Toronto has lost three straight and six of eight.
Quantrill (9-5) allowed one hit, walked none and struck out seven for the AL Central leaders. Eli Morgan gave up a two-out double in the eighth and Nick Sandlin pitched around a leadoff single in the ninth to complete the three-hitter.
ST. LOUIS (AP) — Jordan Montgomery pitched six strong innings in a second straight scoreless outing for his new team, Paul Goldschmidt and Nolan Arenado homered, and St. Louis edged Milwaukee.
St. Louis, which has won 11 of 14, pushed its lead over Milwaukee in the NL Central to 1 1/2 games. The Cardinals won their ninth straight at home, the longest streak since a nine-game run June 2-29, 2015.
Victor Caratini had three hits and an RBI for Milwaukee, which had a two-game winning streak snapped.
Montgomery (5-3) allowed four hits, struck out eight and walked two. Ryan Helsley picked up his 12th save in 15 opportunities.
Eric Lauer (8-4) allowed three runs and five hits over six innings. He struck out five and walked two.
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Gio Urshela had his 11th home run of the season among his three hits, Tyler Mahle pitched three-hit ball over six innings and Minnesota defeated Los Angeles for its 10th shutout win of the season.
Gilberto Celestino also went deep for the Twins, who had dropped six of their last seven road games.
The Angels returned home from a 5-2 road trip, including a three-game sweep of Oakland, but were blanked for the 11th time this season. David Fletcher had a pair of hits and Patrick Sandoval suffered his sixth loss in his last seven starts.
Mahle (6-7) picked up his first win in the second start for his new team. The right-hander struck out six and walked two. 
Patrick Sandoval (3-8) gave up two runs on five hits in five innings with four strikeouts.
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) — Tony Gonsolin took a no-hit bid into the seventh inning and Los Angeles won its 11th straight game, beating Kansas City.
Gonsolin (14-1) tied Atlanta’s Kyle Wright for the NL wins lead. The Dodgers, with the best record in the majors, broke open the game on Trayce Thompson’s three-run homer in the eighth.
Gonsolin did not allow a baserunner until issuing a one-out walk to Kyle Isbel in the sixth, when the game was still scoreless. He didn’t give up a hit until Vinnie Pasquantino’s one-out single in the seventh. Overall, Gonsolin permitted two hits in 6 2/3 innings.
Josh Staumont (3-2) lost in relief, allowing five runs on four hits and a walk, without recording an out.
Michael A. Taylor doubled home a run in the Kansas City seventh. Salvador Perez added a two-run homer in the eighth.
DENVER (AP) — Longtime minor leaguer Wynton Bernard singled, stole a base and scored in his major league debut, helping Colorado beat Arizona.
Brian Serven homered, Dinelson Lamet (1-1) pitched a perfect seventh inning for the win and Carlos Estévez worked the ninth for his second save. 
The 31-year-old Bernard toiled in the minors for more than 10 years before having his contract selected by Colorado on Friday. He made it a memorable debut when he helped spark a seventh-inning rally that put the Rockies in front for good. Bernard legged out an infield single after Sam Hilliard started the inning with a double off Chris Devenski (2-1). Bernard stole second, went to third on Charlie Blackmon’s RBI single and scored on a sacrifice fly.
CHICAGO (AP) — Michael Kopech struck out a career-best 11 in six innings of no-hit ball and Andrew Vaughn hit a tiebreaking two-run single in the seventh inning, leading Chicago over Detroit.
Kopech, who walked three, was lifted despite blanking the Tigers on 85 pitches throught six innings. Vaughn snapped the scoreless game with a two-out, bases-loaded blooper that landed just in front of right fielder Willi Castro’s glove.
Tigers reliever Alex Lange (4-3) pitched the seventh and took the loss as Detroit lost its fifth straight and eighth in nine games. The Tigers managed just three hits while striking out 14 times.
Reynaldo López (5-2) earned the win and Liam Hendriks worked the ninth for his 24th save in 27 chances.
MIAMI (AP) — Michael Harris II had two hits, including a tiebreaking two-run homer in the eighth inning, leading Atlanta past Miami.
Eddie Rosario singled and doubled, and Matt Olson also went deep for the Braves in the opener of a four-game set.
Marlins reliever Elieser Hernández (2-6) allowed Vaughn Grissom’s leadoff double before Harris connected with a shot that bounced off the upper deck railing in right and put Atlanta ahead 4-2.
Tyler Matzek (2-2) pitched a scoreless seventh. Jacob Stallings and Peyton Burdick hit consecutive one-out doubles off Kirby Yates that got Miami to 4-3 in the eighth. A.J. Minter earned his 25th save.
The Marlins had 12 hits but were 1 for 14 with runners in scoring position. It was also their 25th one-run loss.
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (AP) — Jorge Mateo had a career-high five hits, Adley Rutschman and Cedric Mullins homered off the Tropicana Field catwalk, and Baltimore beat Tampa Bay.
Rougned Odor had four of the Orioles’ 19 hits as Baltimore won for the eighth time in 10 games and moved into an AL wild-card spot, a half-game ahead of the Rays. The Orioles also got three hits apiece from Mullins and Anthony Santander. Austin Voth (3-1) took a no-hit bid into the sixth inning and won his second straight start for Baltimore.
Randy Arozarena hit his 14th homer for Tampa Bay, which has lost four of five. Corey Kluber (7-7) took the loss.
Voth, claimed off waivers from Washington on June 7, gave up two runs on three hits in a season-high 5 1/3 innings. Kluber was charged with seven runs on 10 hits in 5 2/3 innings.
HOUSTON (AP) — Kyle Tucker hit a grand slam in the fifth inning to rally Houston past Oakland.
Houston trailed 2-0 before breaking loose for a six-run rally in the fifth. José Altuve doubled and scored on a single by Yuli Gurriel. Yordan Alvarez followed with another single, and Alex Bregman walked to load the bases for Tucker. After Tucker missed badly on an 82 mph slider from Sam Moll to make it a 1-2 count, the left-hander went back to the same pitch and this time Tucker pulled it a few rows deep into the right field seats.
Tucker’s 21st homer of the season gave Houston a 5-2 lead. After Moll (2-1) was replaced, Aledmys Díaz singled and Jeremy Peña doubled to keep the rally going and extend the lead to 6-2. 
Astros starter Luis Garcia (9-8) went six innings, allowing four runs on eight hits while striking out six. Reliever Hector Neris pitched a scoreless ninth for his second save of the season. 
Jonah Bride, Skye Bolt and Ramón Laureano drove in runs for Oakland.
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Carlos Rodon pitched two-run ball through six innings, Mike Yastrzemski drove in three runs and San Francisco beat Pittsburgh.
Just 7-14 since the All-Star break, the Giants snapped a four-game losing streak at home as they try to stay within striking distance of the postseason. At 55-57, they’re 7 ½ games behind the San Diego Padres for the National League’s third and final wild-card spot. 
Rodon (11-6) gave up six hits, struck out seven and didn’t allow a walk. Luis Gonzalez added a two-out RBI double in the eighth to provide some cushion, and Camilo Doval nailed down his 16th save.
Pittsburgh (45-68) lost for the sixth time in eight games despite getting homers from Rodolfo Castro, Ben Gamel and Greg Allen. Right-hander Bryse Wilson (2-7) took the loss, allowing four runs over 5 1/3 innings.
More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/mlb and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
