Have you ever looked in your fridge and thrown food away you're not sure how to use? You are not the only one, as the average person wastes 100kg (220lbs) of food a year, according to Wrap Cymru, a climate action group.A recipe book detailing how to use left-overs has won students at Ysgol Gyfun Penweddig, Aberystwyth, first prize at a UK youth enterprise competition. Their bilingual book, Sbarion - Datrysiad i Wastraff [Leftovers - A Solution to Waste] has also earned the team of Year 10 and 12 pupils a place at a European final in Sicily next week.The book has 20 recipes and can also be adapted to use food in the back of the fridge or cupboard, such as making carrot gnocchi from leftover carrots. What about bread that has gone hard? Try bread cookies - but don't forget the chocolate. 
One of the pupils, Eira, said they selected a mix of "family recipes" and others they "found" interesting and then gathered for a "massive sleepover" to cook all their selections. "I think that was one of the highlights of the year," she said. What's one of their favourite recipes? Making crisps from potato skins "takes something you would definitely throw away and makes it into a five minute snack - all it takes is just throwing them into the oven".Eira said the recipes could also be adapted or act as "a template of what you could add in yourself"."Some of the recipes include things like green peas but it's really easy to swap out for any vegetable or anything you have laying about."
The group of eight pupils formed last September and decided to create a product tackling food waste due to the environmental and financial impact for their UK Young Enterprise Business entry. According to Wrap, 309,000 tonnes of household food waste was generated in Wales in 2021/22. Wasting food is also wastes the energy and water it takes to grow, harvest, transport and package. When food goes to the landfill and rots, it produces methane - a greenhouse gas which contributes to global warming. Another member, Megan, said the statistics made them want to "create a solution".The recipe book has been sold at farmers markets, primary schools and Siop Inc in Aberystwyth where it is on its second stock. 
The team created a company called Llanw [Tide] which Eira said captured the "local beauty" and "reflects the layers of people to go into making a team". They filmed cook-along videos accessed via QR codes in the book. "We felt that, along with being bilingual, that was something that would really make us stand out on the shelf," said Megan.They beat 13 finalists and won two awards: Best use of Technology and Innovation and Company of the Year.
So far, 55 copies have been bought which Megan said "feels very special". To fund the project, they made and sold hair scrunchies, Christmas cards and decorations - they also partnered with local businesses. The teenagers said they have learnt a lot from the experience. "I think running my own business is something I would like in the future," said Nela.Their company is getting ready to take on European companies in the final round on 3 July. Whatever the result, Megan said they were "very proud to be able to represent Wales on such a wide platform".
