LONG POND, Pennsylvania (AP) — Juan Pablo Montoya has been sprayed with champagne, doused with milk, and feted with confetti.
But he never expected to find himself under a shower of potato chips courtesy of teammate Helio Castroneves.
Unable to contain his patriotic fervor after his native Brazil scored a World Cup goal, Castroneves sprung from his seat and dumped a bowl of chips all over Montoya. Montoya seemed slightly irked at the mess and dusted the crumbs off the Colombian jersey he wore at IndyCar’s football party.
The snack attack was just a minor annoyance in a spell of success for the former Indianapolis 500 champion in his return to American open wheel racing.
In the true IndyCar crunch time, Montoya’s adjustment to the car after an uneven seven-year stint in NASCAR may be over. After only two top 10s in his first seven starts, Montoya reeled off a third, second and seventh in his past three.
And because of two races a year on the tri-oval track for NASCAR, no driver will know the Pocono Raceway course as well as he does in Sunday’s race.
Once a brash and fearless driver, Montoya is starting to feel like his old self — and that could spell bad news for the rest of the field.
“I’m getting more cocky,” Montoya said.
He flashed some serious speed on Saturday at Pocono where he turned a track-record lap of 223.920 mph (360.35 kph) and posted a two-lap average of 223.871 to win his first pole of the season.

        
    
Montoya said he has a better understanding of how to make the car do what he wants. With each day, his speed improves, his confidence swells, and he believes he’s on the same pace as Team Penske teammates Will Power of Australia and Castroneves.
“It’s fun because I feel it starting to click,” Montoya said. “The more it starts to click, the more confident you get in the car, the more you push it.”
Montoya is making his championship push at the right time with eight races left in the season, including some that boast double points.
Montoya has some familiar faces to catch in his pursuit of a championship: Power and Castroneves are 1-2 in the standings. Montoya is fifth and rising fast; a Pocono win would net him 100 points in the 500-mile race and would stamp him as a serious player in the championship hunt.
All three drivers insisted it’s not awkward chasing each other for the championship.
“At the end of the day, we accomplish our goal, which is to give the championship to Roger,” Castroneves said.
That’s one reason Montoya signed with Penske. He wanted a competitive ride again after lackluster results driving for Chip Ganassi in NASCAR. He knew his open wheel return would have a learning curve: Montoya last ran in CART in 2000, then left Formula One midway through the 2006 season for NASCAR.
Montoya said there would be little advantage to his familiarity with the 2 1/2-mile (4-kilometer) Pocono track. He should hope for different results, too. Montoya had only one top-five finish in 14 career NASCAR races at Pocono.
“I never doubted Juan Pablo,” Castroneves said.
Montoya doubted himself just a bit after a sluggish start.
“You’re not comfortable, you’re not confident,” he said. “Now, I can outbrake anybody. I can get there and I know I can throw the car in and I’m still going to stop. That confidence level has gone up a long way. I’m starting to pick it back up. It wasn’t going to happen overnight. You’ve got to go racing to really understand.”
Carlos Huertas, Montoya and Carlos Munoz were 1-2-3 last weekend at the Grand Prix of Houston for the first all-Colombian podium in IndyCar history. While national pride had Montoya cheering for Colombia in Friday’s World Cup loss, he just shrugged when it was over.
“I’m not a soccer fan,” he said.
