A fire service has asked people not to use barbeques or open fires after it attended a number of field fires. 
Suffolk Fire and Rescue Service said on Thursday it had experienced a "busy one" with crews going to incidents in Bentley, Thorndon and Rattlesden.
Forty acres (16 hectares) of stubble and hedges was burnt on Stowmarket Road, Rattlesden, at about 14:48 BST, it said. 
There was an "extreme fire risk" over the next few days, it added. 
On Friday afternoon, the A14 was closed near the Orwell Bridge at Ipswich after a fire near the highway. It caused big tailbacks and traffic queues as vehicles diverted into the town.
Crews were called at about 13:30 with the fire out by about 16:00. The A14 reopened, but delays continued on surrounding roads during the evening rush hour.
In Thursday's incidents, people in Thorndon used hosepipes to dampen the ground to try to stop flames spreading in a field before the fire service arrived.
Graeme Cann said he feared his house was at risk: "When I arrived, the first thing I saw was the massive plumes of black smoke and the noise was immense, crackling beyond belief. It looked horrendous."
Richard Nowak, who lives along the edge of the field, said: "As soon as we got to the back garden, we saw how close the fire was. It was raging. It's a scary thing, the speed at which it was coming towards the house."
Fire station manager Alan Coldwell said: "Crews worked extremely hard in this heat to stop the [Rattlesden] fire spreading to neighbouring properties."
The incident was scaled down and crews were left dampening down and dealing with hotspots, he added. 
"If I could ask members of the public to be very cautious during the weekend as the conditions are very dry," he said.
"We're attending a lot of incidents of this nature, so if you could avoid using barbeques, and open fires and bonfires it would be much appreciated."
Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk
