A picture of a lorry crossing an 800-year-old weight-restricted bridge has triggered debate in a Norfolk village.Potter Heigham Bridge was built in the medieval period, but has suffered structural problems in recent years.Traffic is managed by automatic light controls - but a weight restriction prohibits vehicles weighing more than 7.5 tonnes to cross.Photographer Gos Walker, who shared the image on the Potter Heigham Village Facebook page, said the driver claimed they "couldn't go the other way".
The bridge had to be closed to traffic in 2023 after a sinkhole opened up, causing a diversion via the A149 Potter Heigham bypass.Norfolk County Council carried out repairs to the structure, but businesses said they lost trade as a result.
Violations of the traffic rules are something seen regularly by Chloe Cashman, manager of the nearby Bridgestones Cafe.She said: "I've seen the odd lorry and we get a lot of coaches come through. They're often using the bridge."There is definitely another way to go, but it won't be the last. We're always seeing it." Waitress Angie Curtis added: "Lathams [nearby superstore] have given permission for buses and coaches to turn round in their car park, but still they insist on going over."There's a footpath over that [bridge] and one day there's going to be an accident. And that's the sad part."
Visitor Venetta Griffith, 57, from Harrow, said: "There must be another way to go. "The bridge is too small and is an important feature of the place and it shouldn't have a lorry that size. "They should stick to the main roads."She and friend Sharon Moon, 58, from Somerset, said they believed sat nav technology could be to blame. "Whether he's following his satnav, it's no excuse," Ms Moon said."If he said he'd made a mistake and was just going back, then maybe - but not to use it as a main route."
Paul Allison, from Wymondham, said: "It [the lorry] doesn't comply [with the restriction]. It's an articulated lorry. There's no excuse."
Sarah Billman, 65, said: "To be fair, none of the lorries pay any attention to the weight limit. We live in Little Melton near Norwich - it's exactly the same."We have huge lorries that cause congestion; hit the roundabout. It shouldn't happen. The sat nav sends them the quickest way, which is through the village. "They really should stick to where they should be going."
Kim and Joanne Lamb, visiting from Chesterfield, said they had no sympathy for the driver.Mr Lamb, 66, said: "If it's a weight-limited bridge, the bridge might collapse. He'd have to get someone to help him and back it up."Mrs Lamb added: "If he can drive a vehicle like that, he can back it up."
Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
