BOSTON (AP) — Leon Draisaitl had two goals and an assist, moving ahead of teammate Connor McDavid into the NHL scoring lead and leading the Edmonton Oilers to a 5-3 victory over the Boston Bruins on Thursday night.
Evan Bouchard, Zach Hyman and Cody Ceci also scored and Mikko Koskinen stopped 26 shots for Edmonton. McDavid had one assist to extend his scoring streak to 12 games to start the season.
Draisaitl has 26 points (12 goals, 14 assists) for a two-point lead over McDavid.
David Pastrnak, Brad Marchand and Brandon Carlo scored for Boston.
OTTAWA, Ontario (AP) — Jonathan Quick made 34 saves and Los Angeles beat short-handed Ottawa to extend its winning streak to seven games.
Ottawa has nine players and an assistant coach in the NHL’s COVID-19 protocol.
On Thursday, goalie Matt Murray, defenseman Nikita Zaitsev and winger Alex Formenton were placed in the protocol. They joined defensemen Josh Brown, Victor Mete and Nick Holden, as well as forwards Austin Watson, Connor Brown and Dylan Gambrell, and associate coach Jack Capuano.
Anze Kopitar and Andreas Athanasiou scored for the Kings. Filip Gustavsson stopped 32 shots for Ottawa.
DENVER (AP) — Valeri Nichushkin scored in his return from injury, Mikko Rantanen had a goal and two assists and Colorado overcame the absence of star center Nathan MacKinnon to rout Vancouver.
Logan O’Connor and Devon Toews each added a goal and an assist, Gabriel Landeskog, Darren Helm and J.T. Compher also scored, and Darcy Kuemper made 21 saves. The Avalanche snapped a two-game skid with their highest-scoring game of the season. 

        
    
Nils Hoglander scored after Vancouver fell behind 6-0, and Thatcher Demko allowed six goals on 26 shots before being pulled after two periods for the Canucks. They trailed 3-0 before getting their second shot on goal.
Avalanche coach Jared Bednar announced Wednesday that MacKinnon, a four-time All-Star, would miss about three weeks with a lower-body injury suffered Saturday in a loss at Columbus. Compher centered the top line with Landeskog and Rantanen.
DETROIT (AP) — Zach Fucale became the first goalie in Capitals history to post a shutout in his NHL debut, stopping 21 shots in Washington’s victory over Detroit.
Fucale is the first goalie to shut out the Red Wings in his NHL debut in Detroit’s 95 seasons. 
Dmitry Orlov and Lars Eller scored 10 seconds apart in the first period.
Thomas Greiss made 27 saves for the Red Wings.
NEWARK, N.J. (AP) — Mackenzie Blackwood made a season-high 42 saves for his seventh career shutout to help New Jersey beat New York.
Janne Kuokkanen scored a short-handed goal, Tomas Tatar had a power-play goal and Dawson Mercer and Dougie Hamilton each had one at even strength. New Jersey has won three in a row to improve 4-1-2 in its last seven games.
Ilya Sorokin made 30 saves for the Islanders.
MONTREAL (AP) — Nick Suzuki broke a third-period tie with a power-play goal and Montreal beat Calgary.
Suzuki fooled goalie Jacob Markstrom by shooting from behind the net. The puck hit the goalie’s skate and crossed the line for Suzuki’s fourth goal in five games.
Jake Evans, Brendan Gallagher and Ben Chiarot also scored for the Canadiens, and Jake Allen made 24 saves. Mikael Backlund and Andrew Mangiapane had first-period goals for the Flames in the opener of a six-game trip.
SEATTLE (AP) — Troy Terry extended his NHL-leading scoring streak to 13 games with two goals and an assist and Anaheim beat Seattle.
Josh Mahura scored twice to help the Ducks win their sixth in a row in their first game since general manager Bob Murray’s resignation on Wednesday amid an investigation into his conduct. The Ducks have an eight-game unbeaten streak.
John Gibson had 21 saves for his fifth straight victory, and 18-year-old rookie Mason McTavish scored his second career goal. Kevin Shattenkirk and Hampus Lindholm also scored. Jared McCann scored twice for Seattle, and Jordan Eberle and Jaden Schwartz also scored.
PITTSBURGH (AP) — Jeff Carter scored the deciding goal in a shootout and Pittsburgh beat Florida.
Penguins goaltender Tristan Jarry, who has struggled in shootouts this season, gave an emphatic fist pump after stopping Anton Lundell to win it. Jarry also denied Aleksander Barkov and former Penguin Patric Hornqvist.
Evan Rodrigues and Teddy Blueger scored in regulation for Pittsburgh. Barkov and Frank Vatrano scored for Florida.
WINNIPEG, Manitoba (AP) — Nate Schmidt broke a second-period tie with his first goal for Winnipeg and the Jets went on to beat short-handed San Jose.
Seven San Jose players and coach Bob Boughner missed the game because they are in the NHL’s COVID-19 protocol. John MacLean ran the team in Boughner’s absence. 
Pierre-Luc Dubois had a goal and assist and Kyle Connor and Jansen Harkins also scored for Winnipeg. Connor Hellebuyck made 27 saves. Andrew Cogliano scored for San Jose, and Reimer stopped 30 shots.
ST. LOUIS (AP) — Matt Duchene scored his second goal of the game 2:01 into overtime, lifting Nashville past St. Louis.
Yakov Trenin and St. Louis native Luke Kunin also scored for the Predators.
Jordan Kyrou scored twice for the Blues, and Vladimir Tarasenko also had a goal. 
LAS VEGAS (AP) — Paul Cotter and Jonas Rondbjerg each scored their first NHL goal and Vegas defeated Minnesota.
The Golden Knights improved to 7-2-0 since Oct. 26 after opening the season 1-4-0.
Minnesota had its four-game win streak snapped.
Jonathan Marchessault also scored for the Golden Knights, and Laurent Brossoit made 24 saves.
Jared Spurgeon and Ryan Hartman scored for the Wild. Cam Talbot stopped 32 shots.
