An MP is seeking a policy change that would force telecoms firms to share existing infrastructure. 
For weeks, residents in East Yorkshire have complained about businesses installing telegraph poles near homes.
Emma Hardy, MP for Hull West and Hessle, has written to Sir John Whittingdale, the minister for data and digital infrastructure, to request greater powers for the regulator Ofcom.
The BBC has contacted Sir John's office for a response.
Recent proposed pole installations have been delayed in at least one location after a lorry was unable to get to the site due to the way residents' cars had been parked.
At a second location, a cross-the-road event by people living nearby meant contractors were unable to immediately gain access.
In her letter, Ms Hardy said "multiple telegraph poles" were being installed by different companies in the same street within her East Yorkshire constituency. 
She asked Sir John to consider if Ofcom could be given the power "to issue instructions regarding the sharing of infrastructure regardless of whether the firms involved are monopolies".
Ms Hardy also asked if the regulator could be empowered to intervene where companies themselves have not raised a complaint, but where one had been received from either a member of the public or a local authority.
Under Ofcom rules, KCOM - as the area's dominant telecom provider - is required to share its infrastructure.
Previously, Guy Miller, chief executive of MS3 Networks - a KCOM rival currently installing poles in Hedon - said it had chosen not to seek permission "due to the costs involved and the time taken to process [previous] requests".
Hugh Davies, from the firm Connexin, which has also installed infrastructure across East Yorkshire and is now in Cottingham, said it had applied to KCOM "for clarity on pricing and access" to KCOM's infrastructure.
Last week, KCOM insisted it had not received any request from any of rival company to share its infrastructure, and where rivals were installing poles it was "entirely a commercial decision on their part". 
It also strongly denied any suggestion it was "putting any barriers in the way of other providers accessing our network."
Ms Hardy said companies were using "permitted development rights", as set out under the Town and Country Planning (England) Order 2015, to install their own networks.
This can be done without planning permission from local councils.
Ms Hardy asked Sir John to seek a review into the impact of the legislation on areas such as her constituency "which already have a density of broadband infrastructure".
MS3 Networks has infrastructure - both poles and underground cables - installed in Hull. Connexin said it has installed cabling in Leven, Brandesburton, Tickton, Beeford and North Frodingham. 
Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
