A new Berkshire MP has written to the government calling for the walk-in services at a town's hospital to be reopened.Liberal Democrat Joshua Reynolds said the centre at St Mark's Hospital in Maidenhead was "an essential service for local people".The service closed at the start of the pandemic and at the moment there are no plans to reopen it.In a statement NHS Frimley said the urgent primary care service at the hospital provided "safe, effective, high quality and cost-effective" care "in a more comprehensive way than the former walk-in service was able to".
Mr Reynolds said: "It's really clear that the residents want the centre re-opened and it's vital for people that we get it done."
Tony Andrews, a local barber, said the centre would really help elderly residents and those who do not drive. "We used to have one a few years ago and it was a very useful service," he added.His son Jason said re-opening the walk-in centre is "definitely a good thing as Maidenhead has got bigger".He said: "A few months ago my grandson had a bang on the head we took him there [St Mark's Hospital] and we were told to go to Wexham."It is something we should have on our doorstep, Wexham is a great place but for the size of Maidenhead we should have the same."
Mr Reynolds said when he was a child he had access to the walk-in facility. He said: "I hurt myself at school one day and my mum managed to bring me over to St Marks. "Within an hour they'd done an x-ray, put me in a cast and sent me on my way on crutches."That's a local service that people just don't have anymore." 
A spokesperson for NHS Frimley said: "We continually monitor the provision of health services across the area and we welcome discussions with partners and stakeholders. "Following the General Election, we have sent messages to all local MPs to invite them to meet with us to discuss any matters of common interest."
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X (Twitter), or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2240.
