Want more Olympics?
 Sign up for our daily 
Postcards from Paris newsletter.
MARSEILLE, France (AP) — Brazil will meet 
the United States in the final
 of the Olympic women’s soccer tournament after beating world champion Spain 4-2 on Tuesday.
Gabi Portilho, Adriana and Kerolin struck at Stade de Marseille after an own goal from Irene Paredes had put the two-time silver medalist in an early lead.
Victory means 
Brazil great Marta
 should get the chance to end her glittering international career by competing for gold after being suspended for the quarterfinals and semifinals. 
Brazilian players celebrate their side’s 2nd goal scored by teammate Gabi Portilho during a women’s semifinal soccer match between Brazil and Spain at the 2024 Summer Olympics, Tuesday, Aug. 6, 2024, at Marseille Stadium in Marseille, France. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez)
The 38-year-old Marta has said her sixth Olympics will be her last major tournament with the national team.
“We just knew what we came to do today, and it was a final for us today,” said Angelina, who was leading the Brazil team. “So, we were just very determined and we just came for the win.”
Angelina said the Brazil squad needed to “celebrate a little bit” but quickly focus on the final.
“It was a big win. Again, Spain is an amazing team and we knew that,” she said. “So now we need to rest and we need to study a lot, and see what we can do against the U.S.”
Spain’s Salma Paralluelo, right, and Brazil’s Tarciane jump for a header during a women’s semifinal soccer match between Brazil and Spain at the 2024 Summer Olympics, Tuesday, Aug. 6, 2024, at Marseille Stadium in Marseille, France. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez)
Spain won’t get the chance in Paris to further cement its place at the top of women’s soccer by adding Olympic gold to the World Cup it won last year. 
But there’s plenty still to play for at the Paris Games. 
“We keep fighting for something super nice and it will continue to be the Olympics until the end,” Spain forward Jennifer Hermoso said. “A bronze medal is also very difficult to get.”

        
    
Paredes’ sixth-minute own goal put Brazil in control and Portilho doubled the advantage in the fourth minute of first-half stoppage time.
Adriana’s header in 71st underlined Brazil’s dominance.
Salma Paralluelo pulled a goal back for Spain with a header in the 85th and almost immediately Alexia Putellas struck the bar with a shot from outside the area.
Catch up on the latest from Day 11 of the 2024 Paris Olympics:
Kerolin made it 4-1 in the first minute of stoppage time - shooting through Coll’s legs — before Paralluelo got her second in the 12th minute of stoppage time. By then, though, it was too late for Spain to mount a comeback.
Brazil will play the four-time champion U.S. women’s national team in Saturday’s final at Parc des Princes in Paris.
Spain plays Germany in Lyon for bronze.
Brazil has been twice beaten in an Olympic final by the U.S. — at Athens 2004 and Beijing 2008.
It secured a place in the final for the third time after making amends for a 2-0 loss to Spain in the group phase at the Paris Games.
That was a game that also saw Marta red-carded, and Brazil received confirmation just hours before kick off in the semifinals that its appeal against her ban had been rejected.
In the end, Brazil didn’t need its greatest player on this occasion and took a big step towards the final early on after a calamitous mix up in Spain’s defense when goalkeeper Cata Coll - under pressure from Priscila - attempted a clearance that came back off Paredes and into her own net.
Brazil dominated the early chances - repeatedly getting through on goal - and made its superiority count just before halftime through Portilho, who slotted into the bottom corner from Yasmim’s cross.
Adriana made it 3-0 after seeing her initial effort hit the bar from six yards and then heading in from Portilho’s nod back across goal. By then, Brazil had all the momentum and needed only to hang on for victory.
“We showed the world that we have a young team and a team that has a very good tactical understanding, that competes, that will always be like this — competitive,” Brazil coach Arthur Elias said. “Brazil in women’s football is a source of great pride.”
James Robson and Giovanna Dell’Orto contributed. 
AP Summer Olympics: 
https://apnews.com/hub/2024-paris-olympic-games
