The preferred site for a new 600-place secondary school in West Suffolk has been revealed.
Suffolk County Council's cabinet was asked where a new school for the Mildenhall, Lakenheath, and Red Lodge areas should go.
Richard Smith, cabinet member for economic development, said the preferred location was a site just south of Red Lodge.
The authority said the school would cost in the region of £29m to build.
Although a school on this site could be expanded to accommodate 1,200 pupils, the delivery of the initial 600-place building would require around £18m in developer contributions from other projects in the area - as well as a further £11m from other unspecified sources.
As it stands, councillors expect housing growth in all three areas to create enough demand for a new 600-place secondary school to be built by 2027, on top of an additional 300 places to be available at Mildenhall Academy by 2024-25.
A new secondary school in the area would help provide education provision to more than 210 pupils travelling out of Red Lodge to other mainstream schools, and 40 for SEND needs.
Councillor Andy Drummond, who represents both Herringswell and Red Lodge parishes, said concerns of overdevelopment in the village had been raised with him by Herringswell Parish Council.
He suggested more consultation was needed and that two specific sites - one at the heart of Red Lodge and another within the Barton Mills parish boundary - were better options, despite environmental issues, access, land ownership, and public safety concerns.
Mr Drummond added: "Everything in the local plan is going through consultation but, at this moment, the plan identifies the need for a school but doesn't say where — it hasn't been properly consulted."
Mr Smith said a final conclusion would be reached over the next few days, taking into consideration some of the criticisms to do with the county council's preferred site.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
