An elderly couple who "hold hands constantly" are finally back together after illness forced them to live separately for four years.Jean and Terry Eyre, both 94, have been married almost 74 years but were separated in 2020 after Mrs Eyre suffered a stroke and was placed into a nursing home.Their daughters were determined to reunite their parents.Earlier this year, Mr Eyre's own health issues meant he had to relocate from his home in Box into the same care home near Melksham.
The family say they kept the plans secret from the couple as the arrangements for moving Jean were complex, and they did not want the couple to get their hopes up and be disappointed.The husband and wife first realised they were back under the same roof when Mrs Eyre was taken into join her husband for lunch, having been moved to Mavern House the day before."We are lucky," their daughter, Sara-Jane Wishart, explained.  "That even with their Alzheimer's they still know each other, and they still know all of us."When Dad saw Mum in the home for the first time he was so happy and Mum kept asking 'is that my husband?'."
The couple met as teenagers at a youth club in Slough in the mid-1940s. They shared a love of sport and married in 1952 when the were both 21. The family relocated to Box near Bath, with Ms Wishart moving first and later joined by her parents and then her sister.Mr Eyre had a long career as a university lecturer and business owner while Mrs Eyre was an office worker before becoming a full-time mother."We always had a home-cooked supper and mum loved baking for us all," Ms Wishart remembered."We are a small but close family and are always together for family birthdays and celebrations."
"Getting them back together has been very emotional but wonderful," Ms Watts continued."Mum is constantly touching Dad and they hold hands all the time. Dad just beams when she speaks to him."Dad's been eating more cake than he probably wants to but he says he'll do anything to keep Mum happy."
Rosie Hardie, the manager at the home, said: "It was a privilege to play a small part in the reunion of Terry and Jean."Their happiness at being back together has resonated around the home," she said.The couple will celebrate 74 years of marriage with their family in September with a party at the home.
Follow BBC Wiltshire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
