Les Mueller
Dec. 28, 1927 -- March 30, 2018
A funeral service for Les Mueller, 90, of Okoboji, Iowa, will be at 11 a.m. on Wednesday, April 4, 2018 at Immanuel Lutheran Church in Spirit Lake, Iowa. Les passed away March 30 at his home in Okoboji.
Visitation will begin at 9:30 a.m. Wednesday at the church. Interment will held at 2:30 p.m. Friday, April 6, at Roselawn Cemetery in Columbus. Memorials may be given to Joyful Journeys Daycare/Preschool at Immanuel Lutheran Church in Spirit Lake.
Lester Donald Mueller, the son of Elsie (Henke) and Albert Mueller, was born Dec. 28, 1927 in Creston. After graduating from Columbus High School, Les served his country in the United States Army from 1946-1947.
In 1949, Les was united in marriage to Marilyn Loseke Mueller in Columbus, Nebraska. Marilyn passed away in 1977. He later married Eleanor Leighty in Jackson, Minnesota in 1978. Throughout the years, Les worked as a contractor and taught carpentry at the Jackson Vocational Technical School. He later moved to Lincoln, Nebraska where he worked as a realtor before moving to Okoboji when he retired in 1991.
Les was an active member of the Immanuel Lutheran Church in Spirit Lake. He was recognized for his volunteer efforts in remodeling the kitchen and Sunday School rooms in the new church addition.
He is survived by his wife, Eleanor Mueller of Okoboji; children, Jacqueline Mueller (Bill Zahn), Tamara Brown (Kevin Farrington), Cynthia Mueller (Michael Cohen) and Jan (Brian) Brockel; step-children, Laura (Jerry) Raedeke, Kathryn (Val) Zelinko, Rhonda Leighty (Chris Yenne) and Mark (Lori) Leighty; nineteen grandchildren and twenty-four great-grandchildren; siblings, Marvin Mueller, Ron (Gladys) Mueller, Geraldine Inselman and brother-in-law, Jim Novak, all of Nebraska.
Les was preceded in death by his first wife, Marilyn Loseke Mueller; parents, Albert and Elsie Mueller; sister, Margie Novak; brother-in-law, Clarence Inselman and sister-in-law, Ardith Mueller.
Turner Jenness Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.
