An actor who is playing Basil Fawlty in the West End has described the show's creator, John Cleese, as a "real force of nature". Cleese starred as the hotel owner in the 1970s TV series that he has now brought to the stage, with Adam Jackson-Smith, from Norwich, taking on the lead role.The two-hour play, which has been running at the Apollo Theatre since May, combines three infamous episodes of the hit show including Communication Problems, The Hotel Inspectors and The Germans. Jackson-Smith said of Cleese: "He's a real force of nature with a real eye for detail with the direction as well which is great. He just wants to make it funnier all the time."
Set in a fictional hotel in the seaside town of Torquay, the TV show followed an irritable hotel owner who was frequently rude to demanding guests.While only three of the 12 episodes have been combined into one narrative, Jackson-Smith said Cleese had "done a great job". "The architecture of the original 30 minute episodes is so tightly woven, but John's done a really great job of putting these three episodes together," he said.
Jackson-Smith said he had enjoyed the role so far and was grateful for the support of Cleese."There's a little Basil in all of us somewhere fighting to get out, so I guess I've been channelling my mini Basil," he said."I think at the beginning there was definite pressure, that's palpable you couldn't ignore that. At the same time John has been an incredibly generous spirit and a really great and useful voice in the room."
Alongside Jackson-Smith, Anna-Jane Casey stars as his wife Sybil, Hemi Yeroham is waiter Manuel and Victoria Fox as Polly, the chambermaid who often rescues Basil from difficult situations. Jackson-Smith says the show has received numerous standing ovations and booking has now been extended to January 2025. "It's been great fun, it's just a real pleasure," he said."You just get so much back from the audience, you get so much immediate feedback it just carries you through."
Follow Norfolk news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
