CHARLESTON — A bill introduced in the West Virginia House of Delegates on Wednesday seeks to broaden the state’s hate crime law to extend protections for the LGBTQ community and add provisions to build better relationships with people accused of such offenses and their community.
The West Virginia civil rights code includes protections against persons or property from violence, or intimidation by threat of violence, committed against their persons or property because of their race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, political affiliation or sex.
The Justice Through Grace in Communities Act — HB 4281 — seeks to add gender identity and sexual orientation to the statute.
The bill also adds an alternative sentencing option that would allow a judge to assign the perpetrator community service, giving them a chance to work alongside those affected by his or her crime and research the culture of the group with whom his or her prejudice lies.
Andrew Schneider, executive director of Fairness West Virginia, said the bill will give a chance
to redeem, heal and restore perpetrators, victims and the communities they live in.
“Our community will no longer have to live in fear of being assaulted on the street, having our homes vandalized and suffering violence at the hands of people who hate us,” he said.
The bill is sponsored by Del. Ron Walters Sr., R-Kanawha, and is co-sponsored by 10 delegates, including Del. Joshua Higginbotham, R-Putnam, and Del. Charlotte Lane, R-Kanawha.

        
    
A similar companion bill — SB 99 — has been filed in the state Senate by co-lead sponsors State Sen. Richard Ojeda, a Democrat from Logan, and Kanawha Sen. Corey Palumbo. That bill is still seeking co-sponsors.
Schneider said the alternative sentencing option could result in a better community.
He added that placing offenders in jail will likely result in them spending time with other inmates who think as they do.
“You can’t arrest the problem away,” Schneider said. “You have to do what will go to the heart of it, which is exposing these people to the community they targeted and make them do community service to help that community.”
The reach of the current hate crime law was highlighted in 2017 in a Cabell County court case alleging civil rights violations were committed by Marshall University football player Steward Butler. Butler admitted to saying an anti-gay slur and striking Zackary Johnson and Casey Williams in their faces moments after they kissed at 5th Avenue and 9th Street in Huntington in April 2015.
He pleaded guilty to two counts of battery and was sentenced to serve six months and a day in jail for his crime after the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals agreed with Cabell Circuit Judge Paul T. Farrell in the dismissal of the two civil rights violation charges.
After a long, drawn-out battle through the state court system, the Supreme Court ordered the civil rights violation charges be dismissed because sexual orientation is not covered under West Virginia’s hate crime laws. However, the court’s decision pointed to the Legislature to address the issue, stating the Supreme Court could not expand on the word “sex” to change the law to cover sexual orientation.
Butler’s defense attorney, Ray Nolan, found the Legislature had declined to add sexual orientation to the state hate crime law 26 times since its 1987 enactment.
While bills seeking to extend the law in the past haven’t been successful, Schneider said this one feels different.
“It has more bipartisan support than ever before. That definitely bodes well for it,” he said. “And I think also the fact the state Supreme Court clearly sent a message to the Legislature that LGBTQ people who are victims of hate crimes are not covered under the gender protection under the law.”
Similar bills have been successful in other states, Schneider said, and the rehabilitation approach was even used recently in Pocahontas County for a young man who wrote racial slurs on the side of a business owned by a woman who was married to a Jamaican black man and had biracial children.
The perpetrator was sentenced to a year in jail, but the sentence was suspended for three years’ probation. During that time, he had to complete 500 hours of community service, was assigned to write a 2,000-word essay on how he would feel in that situation and was assigned readings that exposed him to black people and their culture, Schneider said.
“In the end, the offender and the victim ended up sparking a dialogue with each other, which was helpful for both,” he said. “It changes the hearts and minds of those who commit violence based on hate and it heals the victims who were filled with fear as a result of this very particular crime.”
The bill has been sent to committee for review.
Follow reporter Courtney Hessler at Facebook.com/CHesslerHD and via Twitter @HesslerHD.
