HOUSTON (AP) — Carlos Correa hit a tiebreaking home run in the seventh inning that helped the Houston Astros beat the Boston Red Sox 5-4 in Game 1 of the AL Championship Series on Friday night.
Correa’s solo shot off Hansel Robles came with two outs and gave the Astros a 4-3 lead.
Jose Altuve homered and drove in three runs for the Astros. 
Kiké Hernández hit two home runs, a double and a single for Boston. His solo drive in the ninth pulled the Red Sox within a run.
Game 2 is Saturday afternoon at Minute Maid Park. 
CHICAGO (AP) — The Chicago Cubs hired Carter Hawkins as general manager on Friday, dipping into Cleveland’s front office in an effort to bolster their own player development system.
The 37-year-old Hawkins spent 14 seasons with Cleveland, including the last five as an assistant general manager. He also supervised the team’s player development department.
The Cubs plan to formally introduce Hawkins as the franchise’s 16th general manager at a news conference on Monday.
NEW YORK (AP) — The NFL has found no other current team or league personnel to have sent emails containing racist, homophobic or misogynistic language similar to messages written by Jon Gruden that led to his resignation as Las Vegas Raiders coach, according to a person familiar with the documents.
The person familiar with the investigation as well as emails told The Associated Press on Friday that the league “did not identify other areas and other individuals it has to contact at club leadership or league leadership levels.” The person spoke on condition of anonymity because the league has not publicly released what is in the 650,000 emails the independent investigators collected during an investigation of sexual harassment and other workplace conditions at the Washington Football Team.

        
    
— By Pro Football Writer Barry Wilner.
TEMPE, Ariz. (AP) — Arizona coach Kliff Kingsbury and two assistants will miss the Cardinals’ game Sunday at Cleveland after testing positive for COVID-19.
Quarterbacks coach Cam Turner and defensive tackle Zach Allen also will be sidelined for the NFL’s only unbeaten team.
Defensive coordinator Vance Joseph, who has head coaching experience in Denver, and assistant head coach/special teams coordinator Jeff Rodgers will split head coaching responsibilities for Arizona (5-0). 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) — The Arizona Cardinals acquired tight end Zach Ertz in a trade with the Philadelphia Eagles on Friday.
The undefeated Cardinals sent cornerback Tay Gowan and a 2022 fifth-round pick to the Eagles for the 30-year-old Ertz, a three-time Pro Bowler. 
Ertz had four receptions for 29 yards and a touchdown during Thursday night’s 28-22 loss to Tampa Bay.
Ertz was selected by Philadelphia in the second round of the 2013 draft. He has 579 receptions for 6,267 yards and 38 touchdowns in 123 career regular-season games.
BOSTON (AP) — The Boston Bruins signed Charlie McAvoy to a contract extension on Friday, securing their No. 1 defenseman for eight more years at a cost of $76 million.
The 23-year-old McAvoy was fifth in Norris Trophy voting last year. He had five goals and 25 assists in 51 games last season and led all Bruins defensemen with a plus-22 rating. In the playoffs, he had 12 points in 11 games. 
The 2016 first-round draft pick has 24 goals and 98 assists in 235 regular-season games, to go along with another 32 points in 65 playoff appearances.
CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) — Liberty University has reached a five-year extension with Hendrick Motorsports to continue as a primary sponsor for William Byron. 
Byron is a junior pursuing a degree in strategic communication through Liberty’s online program. He has been sponsored by the Christian university in some part since 2014 when he drove late models. 
Liberty has sponsored 12 races a season for Byron at the Cup level since his 2018 rookie season. The contract extension announced Friday covers 12 races a year through 2026.
PARIS (AP) — Next year’s Formula One season will feature 23 races and open in Bahrain rather than its traditional start in Australia, with Singapore and Canada returning after two straight cancellations amid the coronavirus pandemic.
The 2022 calendar was approved by governing body FIA’s World Motor Sport Council on Friday.
The Bahrain Grand Prix in Sakhir on March 20 will be followed by the second hosting of the Saudi Arabia GP in Jeddah and then the Australian GP in Melbourne on April 10.
The season then jumps to Europe two weeks later for the Emilia Romagna GP in Italy (subject to contract approval) and then to the United States for the Miami GP on May 8 (subject to circuit approval by the FIA).
CHICAGO (AP) — Kahleah Copper scored 20 of her 22 points in the first half and Chicago used a dominant defensive effort to reach a record rout of the Phoenix Mercury 86-50 Friday night, moving the Sky one victory away from the franchise’s first WNBA title. 
Chicago will look to close out the best of five series on Sunday.
The Sky dominated on both ends, holding Brittney Griner to just four first-half points on 1-of-8 shooting after she scored 29 in the Mercury’s overtime win on Wednesday. 
Chicago also took Diana Taurasi out of the game, holding to her five points on 1-of-10 shooting. Griner finished with 16 points.
 COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) — Dawn Staley and South Carolina have agreed to a new, seven-year contract that will pay her $2.9 million this season and grow to $3.5 million in the final season. 
The school’s Board of Trustees approved the deal worth $22.4 million on Friday to keep the national championship coach with the Gamecocks through the 2027-28 season. 
The school said in a statement the new deal makes Staley the highest-paid Black coaches in women’s basketball and one of the highest paid coaches in the sport. 
Staley’s salary is the highest in the Southeastern Conference, surpassing newly hired LSU coach Kim Mulkey, who will make $2.5 million in her first year with the Tigers. 
ZURICH (AP) — A request to increase halftime breaks to 25 minutes for Super Bowl-style entertainment shows will be discussed this month, soccer’s lawmaking panel IFAB said Friday.
South American soccer body CONMEBOL made the request last month suggesting it would work for cup finals like its Copa Libertadores competition.
Law 7 of soccer currently states “players are entitled to an interval at halftime, not exceeding 15 minutes.” 
The International Football Association Board rules panel put the CONMEBOL request on the agenda for its expert advisers to discuss Oct. 27 at meetings being held remotely.
More AP sports: 
https://apnews.com/hub/apf-sports
 and 
https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
