Winds and heavy rain are set to ease across the UK as the first Met Office-named storm of the year clears. 
Storm Antoni hit several parts of England, Wales and Northern Ireland between Friday and Saturday. 
Some residents were evacuated due to flooding and events such as Brighton's Pride were also hit. 
Yellow rain warnings in Northern Ireland and amber wind warnings in Wales and southwest England ended on Saturday. 
The yellow warnings for thunderstorms in south-east England, including Brighton and London, ended at 22:00 BST, along with the yellow wind warnings in western areas including Cardiff and Bath. 
The Met Office said winds would continue to ease overnight into Sunday, with "a few showers" persisting near coasts.  
Storm Antoni hit late on Friday, with gusts of up to 65mph affecting exposed coastal areas.
The Met Office issued warnings for affecting areas encompassing Plymouth, Bristol and Bath in England and Swansea, Carmarthenshire and Pembrokeshire in Wales. 
It warned that danger to life from flying debris were possible and "large waves and beach material being thrown on to sea fronts, coastal roads and properties".
On Saturday, Cleveland Police said residents in Loftus and Carlin How, North Yorkshire were evacuated due to flooding. The force warned people not drive to the homes of relatives or make unnecessary journeys.
Met Office chief meteorologist Steve Willington previously said the storm has the potential to bring "potentially disruptive" weather as it moved from west to east.
Mr Willington said Northern Ireland would see some of the highest rainfall totals, with 40-60mm falling in some spots.
Meanwhile, Brighton's Pride still went ahead, despite the challenges from the weather and industrial action on the railways.
However, a Pride festival in Devon was scaled back due to concerns over strong winds.
Plymouth Pride 2023 said a "rainbow village" featuring up to 80 traders would be cancelled because of the potential for "flying gazebos".
Storm worries have seen the annual Stompin' on the Quomps festival cancelled for the first time in its 30-year history in Christchurch. Around 10,000 people had been expected to attend on Saturday.
