A new community café is creating opportunities for training and employment for adults with learning disabilities. 
Crafted opened on Fishponds Road, North Bristol on Saturday, 28 October.
The café is the latest social enterprise from Bristol charity Props.
Lara Jaffey from Props, said: "If only more places could stop thinking about the end result in terms of money, but think about the value in other ways.
"The value we get about learning from each other, the value we get from being kind in our societies and our communities. 
"The one thing we all have in common is that we are different and let's celebrate that." 
Props aims to empower adults with learning disabilities to achieve purposeful and rewarding work opportunities. 
Its purpose is to instil in their trainees the skills necessary to find paid work on their own.
The café follows on from their Tapestry brewery in St Phillip's and Vassall café, also in Fishponds. 
Props also run a cycle hub and print workshop, where trainees learn bicycle maintenance and print design. 
Jordan Wride, 33, has been a trainee with Props for 16 years: "I love it. I love the company, the staff and the customers. 
"They always seem to have a great sense of humour."
Mr Wride added: "I have only ever done work experience before, which is a bit of a downer. 
"But I'm hoping to get paid work in the future, that would be my dream.
"With the right support and with this lovely Props family - I call them my family - behind me, I will get to the right area."
During the day, trainees from Props can either work in the Crafted café, serving up hearty, homecooked food; or in the custom-built workshop, developing skills in sewing, print and graphic design to create handmade products. As evening falls, the tapestry team transform Crafted into a cosy bar that serves craft beers brewed by Props' trainees.
Sophie Webster is a project assistant at the Crafted café and helps to train the trainees.
She said: "Every day that I've worked here since we opened has been really busy, which is amazing.
"I joined Props when I was getting furloughed during the pandemic, and liked it so much I decided to stay. 
"We are just like a little family, everyone is looking out for each other. 
"The whole aspect of not letting barriers stop the trainees from working and living an independent life is what I love."
Follow BBC West on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: bristol@bbc.co.uk
