SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) — Phil Kessel celebrated his NHL Ironman record by scoring his 400th career goal and the Vegas Golden Knights beat the San Jose Sharks 4-2 on Tuesday night. 
Kessel broke the record set by Keith Yandle last season when he got the start in his 990th consecutive game since taking the ice for Toronto on Nov. 3, 2009.
He wasn’t done there, getting the first goal of the game to add to his milestone night. He took a pass in transition from Brett Howden and beat James Reimer up high to become the 12th American-born player to score 400 goals.
The Golden Knights made sure it was a celebratory night with goals from Shea Theodore, William Karlsson and Mark Stone in the third period to get the win.
Adin Hill made 29 saves in his first game against San Jose since being traded to Vegas this summer.
The Sharks got goals from Nico Sturm and Matt Nieto in the second period but still lost their eighth straight home game to the Golden Knights. Reimer made 27 saves for San Jose.
NEW YORK (AP) — Evan Rodrigues scored in the deciding goal in the shootout and Alexandar Georgiev made 44 saves against his former team to lead Colorado.
Rodrigues beat Rangers goalie Igor Shesterkin in the fourth round of the tiebreaker before Georgiev denied Alexis Lafreniere’s attempt to seal the victory. Mikko Rantanen also scored in the shootout for Colorado and Artemi Panarin tallied for the Rangers.

        
    
Valeri Nichushkin and Logan O’Connor scored in regulation for the Avalanche.
Barclay Goodrow had a goal and an assist and Adam Fox also scored for the Rangers, who have lost three in a row — all at home. Shesterkin finished with 42 saves.
CHICAGO (AP) — Patrick Kane had a goal and an assist, and the Chicago won its fourth straight.
Taylor Raddysh, Philipp Kurashev and Jonathan Toews also scored for the Blackhawks. Alex Stalock stopped 29 shots. Chicago overcame two-goal deficits in its previous three wins, but had to hold on against the Panthers in the final 10 minutes.
Florida, which won its first two games, is 2-2-1 since. Eetu Luostarinen and Matthew Tkachuk scored for the Panthers. Sergei Bobrovsky had 18 saves.
LOS ANGELES (AP) — Gabe Vilardi had a goal and an assist, Phillip Danault scored for the second straight game and Los Angeles snapped a 10-game losing streak to Tampa Bay.
Blake Lizotte and Adrian Kempe both had a goal, and Jonathan Quick made 24 saves for the Kings. 
Brandon Hagel and Nikita Kucherov scored, and Andrei Vasilevskiy allowed four goals on 33 shots in the opener of Tampa Bay’s three-game California road trip.
MONTREAL (AP) — Joel Eriksson Ek had two goals and Brandon Duhaime scored the tiebreaker in the second period and added an assist, leading Minnesota past Montreal.
Eriksson Ek scored in the first period and added an empty-netter with 30 seconds left in the third. Marc-Andre Fleury finished with 26 saves for the Wild.
Cole Caufield scored his fifth goal of the season for Montreal. Jake Allen had 28 saves on 30 shots.
BOSTON (AP) — Taylor Hall scored the tiebreaking goal late in the second period, Linus Ullmark stopped 30 shots and Boston improved to 6-1.
It was the third straight game-winning score for Hall, who had an overtime goal to beat Minnesota on Saturday after getting the lone tally in a shootout against Anaheim last Thursday. 
David Pastrnak added a power-play goal and an assist, and Patrice Bergeron had an empty-netter with 27 seconds to go for the Bruins, who remained unbeaten at home at 5-0.
Wyatt Johnston scored for Dallas (4-2-1), which dropped its second straight game. Jake Oettinger made 26 saves.
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Shayne Gostisbehere scored twice as Arizona beat Columbus.
Zack Kassian, Jack McBain, Lawson Crouse and Dylan Guenther also scored for the Coyotes and Clayton Keller had two assists. Connor Ingram stopped 31 shots in his first win this season for Arizona, which won for the second time in its opening six-game road trip.
Johnny Gaudreau, Kent Johnson and Andrew Peeke scored for Columbus, which lost for the fifth time in eight games. Daniil Tarasov gave up four goals on 12 shots before being pulled in the second period for Elvis Merzlikins, who finished with five saves.
The Blue Jackets were 0 for 5 on the power play to fall to 0 for 20 on the season.
DETROIT (AP) — Jesper Bratt had two goals and an assist to lead New Jersey.
Jack Hughes, Dawson Mercer, Yegor Sharangovich and Nico Hischier also scored for the Devils, and Ryan Graves had two assists. Vitek Vanecek stopped 20 shots to help the Devils bounce back from a 6-3 loss at home to Washington on Monday. Bratt extended his point streak to seven games, tying his career high.
Dominik Kubalik and Dylan Larkin scored for Detroit and Alex Nedeljkovic made 35 saves. The Red Wings (3-1-2) were the last remaining team without a regulation loss.
CALGARY, Alberta (AP) — Nazem Kadri had two goals and an assist to extend his points streak to six games as Calgary beat Pittsburgh.
Jonathan Huberdeau had his first goal with the Flames and Michael Stone also scored as Calgary won for the fifth time in six games. Jacob Markstrom stopped 32 shots to improve to 4-0-0.
Evgeni Malkin scored for Pittsburgh, which has lost two straight in regulation after starting the season 4-0-1. Casey DeSmith had 31 saves. Sidney Crosby, who entered the night with 11 points in six games, was held pointless in his bid for his 900th career assist.
SEATTLE (AP) — Daniel Sprong had a goal and two assists as Seattle beat Buffalo.
Kraken defenseman Jamie Oleksiak opened the scoring less than 2 1/2 minutes in. Morgan Geekie, Jordan McCann and Matty Beniers also scored for Seattle. Martin Jones made 15 saves.
Dylan Cozens scored for the Sabres. Eric Comrie had 19 saves.
