A Men's Sheds group has been given permission to run DIY sessions from a set of converted shipping containers.
Braintree District Council had initially rejected the planning application for the project in Great Yeldham, Essex. 
Men's Sheds aims to tackle loneliness by providing community workshops. 
Mark Sutton, chair of the Great Yeldham group, said it was "absolutely fantastic" that their revised plans had been permitted. 
"Ten people who were complete strangers 18 months ago have worked together to bring something to fruition," he added. 
Speaking about Men's Sheds, which operates nationally, Mr Sutton said: "Retired guys especially can become quite lonely - suddenly they're not working and they don't leave the house and see anyone. 
"Guys will often talk about things better when they're doing something as opposed to sitting face-to-face. If they're building a bird box or similar, they're more likely to talk.
"I'm only 56. I still work but I work from home. I don't see anyone any more - there's no interaction. Then at the shed, I'm up there, chatting."
Great Yeldham Parish Council provided land near the sports and recreation ground off Toppesfield Road to build the sheds out of shipping containers. 
However, Mr Sutton said he did not realise they needed planning permission.
It was a shock when Braintree District Council turned down the plans on the grounds that the two corrugated metal containers they had already set up were of an "industrial design not fitting in within its environment".
But a modified design for three containers was given planning permission, which involved cladding them in timber.
Gabrielle Spray, cabinet member for planning and infrastructure at Braintree District Council, said: "We were always supportive of the use and the benefits the asset would bring to the community, but what we now have is a scheme which is also suitable to its surroundings.
"We know the Men's Shed has a bright future in Great Yeldham and we hope the community will be very happy in their new hub and workshop." 
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
