"It felt good."This is what 27-year-old, Daniel O'Reilly told BBC News NI when asked about winning the inaugural League of Ireland Down Syndrome Futsal Cup.County Donegal side Finn Harps beat Dundalk 6-2 on 9 June in County Meath to claim the cup.Almost one month on, the team got a hero's welcome as they paraded the trophy around the home of the Ballybofey club, Finn Park.
The team is made up of players from both sides of the border, including players from counties Donegal, Londonderry and Tyrone.Mr O'Reilly from Letterkenny said: "It was a long day but it was fun."I would definitely play again." Futsal is similar to football but is played indoors between two five-player teams with a smaller, less bouncy ball.
Mr O'Reilly was also part of Ireland's first ever side to compete in the futsal European Championships in Italy last September. Daniel's mother Gabrielle O'Reilly said: "They are trying to keep the incentive going so the opportunity to play for Ireland will be there for the adults with Down's syndrome. "It gives them a great opportunity that they've never had before."Ms O'Reilly said she was "just so proud because he loves football".But there were concerns at first about how Mr O'Reilly would get on, his mother admitted. "It's a little bit different. It's indoors, there's only five in the team. The ball is a bit different as well. It's a little bit heavier and there are different rules."So we weren't totally sure how he would adapt to it. But he really enjoyed it and actually you could see the improvement." 
Stephen McNutt is the social responsibility officer at Finn Harps.He said the competition provides a pathway for Down's syndrome players, who usually cannot play at a higher level than the National League. However, Mr McNutt said that the enjoyment which the players experience outweighs everything else. "Just to be involved with them and see the determination and to see them competing on an equal level, which is the first time ever," he added.He added that the plan to run the event on a quarterly basis offers a "great opportunity" for the players. Ms O'Reilly agreed and said it sent out "a great message to the people coming behind us that they have these opportunities as well." "You do need the support of the teams like our local Finn Harps who get on board to run with it", she said."It was also through our local Down's syndrome association that all this is getting off the ground."
Mark Scanlon, who is the director of the League of Ireland, said there had been "huge buy in" from clubs."The initial competition, we hoped for a few clubs and we ended up with eight teams," he said. "The first cup went really well, it was a brilliant weekend." "It was competitive with great skill on show," he added."We want to make sure the competition grows and get a few more clubs to take part."
