A hospice charity has said a year-long review of end-of-life services shows there is a need for inpatient beds in east Suffolk and Norfolk.
East Coast Hospice merged with Ipswich-based St Elizabeth Hospice last year.
St Elizabeth runs end-of-life care at Beccles Hospital, Suffolk, and delivers palliative care at patients' homes.
The charity said it was committed to building a new hospice on land at Sidegate Lane in Gorleston-on-Sea, which it has inherited from the merger.
The charity was renamed as St Elizabeth East Coast Hospice in 2023 and in a statement its chief executive Judi Newman said: "Hospice care has changed considerably in recent years... [but] it is clear additional hospice facilities are still needed - particularly north of Lowestoft."
Before the merger, there were plans for a hospice with roughly 10 beds at Gorleston.
The charity said the new beds were needed to service people in Great Yarmouth and Waveney.
The BBC spoke to customers outside the charity's shop in Gorleston about the announcement.
"It's a good idea [because] there are a lot of ill people who will benefit from it," said Paul Fountain, 59, from Hopton in Norfolk.
"It's going to help a lot of people and it's got to be a good thing for people who need it."
Joleen Azevedo, 42, from Great Yarmouth, said: "I think it's a shame it's taken them a year to realise this.
"If you look at the local statistics you will realise there is a need for this locally.
"At least it is moving in the right direction now, however, with all the planning time frames and the build, how much more time will people have to wait?"
The charity has shortlisted three architects to potentially draw up a modular-type construction.
While the charity has not said how many beds are needed, Ms Newman added: "The Gorleston site is larger than required for our own building needs. 
"We are in positive talks with potential partners who may also be interested in sharing the site to improve local services for the community."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
