A sheltered accommodation facility for older people will close over financial pressures, its operator has confirmed.
Abbeyfield, which runs Alexander House in Bootle near Millom, Cumbria, said it had struggled to fill flats and bedrooms for nearly three years.
Copeland's Conservative MP Trudy Harrison said it was "bitterly disappointing" and vowed to step in.
A closure date is yet to be decided, but the operator said it was supporting affected residents and staff.
Families were first told of plans to potentially close the service along with dozens of other sites across the country in May.
At the time, it blamed "financial challenges" brought on by rising inflation rates and the cost of living crisis.
However, Ms Harrison accused the operator of U-turning after previously working with them on preventing a closure.
She said: "Alexander House was built by the community, for the community and the Abbeyfield Society were entrusted with providing the much needed continued facility. 
"It's bitterly disappointing to learn of this apparent change of heart, I will of course intervene and undertake to find a community focussed, owned and managed solution.  
"I know residents want to stay in Bootle, we need Alexander House to stay open."
Family members and residents had been campaigning to keep the site, which has ten bedrooms and a two-bed flat, from closing.
However, Abbeyfield said an extensive independent review had found it was "no longer financially sustainable" and in need of "significant renovation" to meet regulations in the future.
A spokesperson said it had "spoken at length with residents, families, staff and stake holders" in recent months about the "different options" that may allow the home to stay open, which had been unsuccessful.
They said: "As a charity, we never want to close a home, however, part of being a responsible organisation is recognising when you need to make a difficult decision, and this is one of those occasions."
Follow BBC North East & Cumbria on X, Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk.
