Something has to give soon at Michigan State University. The pressure on the institution, its board of trustees and President Lou Anna Simon is building to a point that demands a significant response.
MSU has so far resisted any major action to counter the damage being done to its reputation by the Dr. Larry Nassar sexual abuse scandal.
This newspaper and other editorial boards, as well as several key lawmakers and at now least two MSU trustees, have called for Simon’s resignation, or for her removal by the eight-member board.
And on Wednesday, shortly after Nassar was sentenced to 40-175 years in prison on sexual assault charges, the state House adopted a resolution, 96-11, calling on Simon to resign — and if she doesn’t, asking MSU trustees to step in. The House doesn’t have the constitutional authority to remove her.
Meanwhile, the MSU student government has asked Simon to resign and the faculty is discussing a no-confidence vote. Also on Wednesday, Sue Carter resigned as the faculty athletic representative.
MSU’s stubborn denial of reality can’t stand. The events of the past two weeks make it impossible for Simon to recover and again be an effective leader.
Dozens of women who charge they were assaulted by Nassar while they were involved with the MSU gymnastics program gave powerful statements during several days of his sentencing hearing. More than 150 women have spoken out against him in the last week.

        
    
They spoke of the harm done to them by Nassar, who was team doctor of the university’s gymnastics team, and also of their sense of betrayal by MSU.
Many of the victims say over the 20 years that Nassar was abusing gymnasts, they attempted to tell coaches, trainers and other MSU staffers about what he was doing, but were either ignored or shamed and bullied into silence. Those claims were verified by a Detroit News investigative report. Listen to Nassar victim Rachael Denhollander’s damning indictment of MSU for not taking action when athletes reported abuse.
MSU has responded with a few tepid apologies, and not much else.
This week, the NCAA, the governing body of collegiate sports, sent a letter of inquiry to MSU indicating it is starting an investigation into whether the university failed to provide a safe environment for its student athletes.
That letter came after Joel Ferguson, MSU’s longest serving trustee, went on a radio show and dismissed the scandal as “that Nassar thing.”
Ferguson also scoffed at the prospect of an NCAA investigation, saying that since gymnastics isn’t a major sport like football, he doubted the organization would be interested.
His insensitive remarks lend credence to the theory of some victim advocates that the university failed to react with urgency to the molestation claims because they came from young women and girls in the gymnastics program, and not in a sport with a higher profile.
The board at long last asked the Attorney General’s office to investigate. But that’s too little too late. The questions and accusations have grown past the point where they can be answered with official statements from the board or the administration.
Restoring MSU’s credibility and reputation requires new leadership and a commitment to finding the truth.
