A man with Parkinson's disease has raised more than £22,000 after doing 1,000 press-ups a day for a month. Richard Longthorp, 71, a pig farmer from Howden, East Yorkshire, completed the challenge at St Paul's Boxing Academy, Hull, during January.On one occasion, he completed his 1,000 press-ups in 56 minutes.The money has been split between St Paul’s, Goole Amateur Boxing Club and the charity Parkinson’s UK.Mr Longthorp was diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease in 2017. He responded by taking up boxing and joining St Paul’s Parkinson’s Punchers boxing group, which he said had been hugely beneficial in helping to live with the condition.The group said boxing was increasingly being recognised as an effective way of mitigating many of the symptoms of Parkinson's, improving co-ordination, balance and posture. Parkinson's UK said research had found "offering group-based, Parkinson's-specific boxing sessions that are adaptable, varied and encourage social support and networking may be beneficial to increasing motivation for physical activity in people with Parkinson's".
Mr Longthorp said: “When I started, I had a target of £2,000 so it’s incredibly humbling to have raised more than £22,000. I can’t thank people enough for their support.“The boxing sessions have been hugely beneficial to me and my fellow Parkinson’s Punchers. It’s really heartening to think that the money raised will go to help increase the provision for more Parkinson’s boxing sessions.”Olympic champion Luke Campbell is among those who trained at St Paul's Boxing Academy. Head coach Mike Bromby MBE said: “We can’t thank Richard enough - not just for the funds but also for the way he’s an inspiration for the whole St Paul’s family. Boxing is all about getting back up and Richard is the epitome of that. “The sessions we run for people with Parkinson’s are relaxed and informal. If anyone is interested in finding out more, they should get in touch." Follow BBC East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastyorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
