HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) — Critics of a tentative redistricting plan for the Pennsylvania House and Senate on Wednesday urged the panel drawing up new lines to get back to work and make additional changes.
Senate President Joe Scarnati, R-Jefferson, told the Legislative Reapportionment Commission it was a mistake, for instance, to move a Pittsburgh-area seat to the fast-growing Pocono Mountains in eastern Pennsylvania, as currently proposed.
In drawing up the lines, Scarnati said, the commission placed too much emphasis on legislative member retirements over other factors such as population shifts. He said the attention to retirements was “nothing more than a back-door way of protecting incumbency.”
The seat he focused on is currently represented by Sen. Jane Orie, R-Allegheny, who may soon resign or be forced out following her recent conviction on public corruption charges. Her district would move to Monroe County.
The commission is working on a new set of maps after a state Supreme Court ruling in January threw out the panel’s first effort. Panel members include the House and Senate floor leaders of both parties and a fifth member, a judge appointed by the high court after the four floor leaders could not agree on a chairman.
Sen. Daylin Leach, D-Montgomery, told the commission Wednesday the maps as currently drawn reflect an effort by Republicans to gerrymander the state to retain majority control. But Leach said he supported changing the maps so that two candidates who last week won primaries for two different Senate seats do not have to move if they win the general election.

        
    
One of the candidates, Republican D. Raja, lives within the current district boundaries of the Allegheny County seat he’s seeking, but not the boundaries as they are proposed on the new map. Leach said the same would apply to Democrat Rob Teplitz, who won the primary for a Harrisburg area seat whose district boundaries would change under the proposed map.
Leach argued that “simple fairness and decency” demand that the two scenarios get treated identically.
“I am asking you not to be partisans, but to be statesmen,” he said.
Amanda Holt, a piano teacher whose alternative maps helped persuade the high court to throw out the previous set of maps, said the current draft split too many municipalities, far more than would meet the “absolutely necessary” standard in the state constitution.
She said the revised plan “needlessly continues to sacrifice our constitution on the altar of incumbent protection.”
Some lawmakers and others spoke of how the maps would negatively affect the communities they represent, or where they live.
Montgomery County Democratic Committee chairman Marcel Groen told the commissioners his 800,000-population county would be split among seven state senators.
“What is it that we’ve done wrong?” Groen asked. “Have we become too competitive? Are there too many Democrats that are voting?”
A second hearing to gather public input will be held next week.
