A West Yorkshire theatre is marking its centenary by staging a play written in 1924, they year it opened.
Hebden Bridge Little Theatre will welcome theatregoers to its performance of Noel Coward's Hay Fever from 26 February until 2 March.
The Holme Street theatre has only ever closed twice, during the  Coronavirus pandemic and when it moved to its current home in 1992 to 1993.
It was previously housed in the Trades Club, now a popular music venue. 
The theatre had to move from the club in 1977, to a converted coach garage next door and then to its current, purpose-built venue. 
Performances even went ahead during World War Two, when more than 70,000 seats were sold despite the threat of air raids and gas attacks. 
The theatre was affected by the Boxing Day Floods in 2015 however, which damaged more than 3,000 properties in the Calder Valley and caused an estimated £150m of damage.
Hannah Stow, president of Hebden Bridge Little Theatre, says "We have since installed flood doors, and although there will doubtless be other challenges to face, the resilience we have always shown in the face of adversity should help us overcome them.
"I am so proud to be the theatre's president during the Centenary year, and hope the public helps us celebrate in style by attending some of the superb events we have lined up in honour of the anniversary."
Edmund Tirbutt, who will play David Bliss in the upcoming performance of Hay Fever, said: "It's a hugely important part of the community.
"I moved up to the area in 2016 and got involved with the theatre a year later."
He said joining the theatre was a good way to "get to know people".
"Anybody is welcome to come along and get involved in acting, or get involved in the production side of things," he added.
Performances scheduled for later in the year include The Long Road by Shelagh Stephenson, A Midsummer Night's Dream by Shakespeare, Beryl by Maxine Peake and One Man, Two Guvnors by Richard Bean.
Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
