NEW YORK (AP) — The Jets quickly cut ties with third-round pick Jachai Polite, a pass rusher from Florida who struggled to make an impact during training camp.
Polite was among the last draft class selected by previous general manager Mike Maccagnan, who was fired a few weeks after the draft and replaced by Joe Douglas. New York has been looking to upgrade its edge rush, but Polite routinely worked with the third-team defense and appeared buried on the depth chart. He was considered a potential first-rounder before poor performances in workouts and interviews leading up to the draft caused his stock to drop.
New York also traded cornerback Parry Nickerson, a sixth-rounder last year, to Seattle for a conditional 2021 draft pick as teams got down to the mandatory 53-man initial roster Saturday.
Despite the Jets in need of depth at cornerback, Nickerson couldn’t make his mark as a backup. He made two starts as a rookie, but struggled.
The Jets waived both Davis Webb and Luke Falk, leaving starter Sam Darnold and backup Trevor Siemian as the only quarterbacks on the roster. Falk outplayed Webb in the preseason and could be brought back on the practice squad.
Running back Elijah McGuire was waived and tight end Eric Tomlinson was released, both of whom started games for New York the past two seasons. Other veteran cuts included: linebacker Stephone Anthony, cornerback Marcus Cooper and wide receiver Deonte Thompson.

        
    
Running back/wide receiver Valentine Holmes, the former Australian rugby league star, was among those waived. He could join the Jets’ practice squad under the NFL’s International Player Pathway Program. Through the program, all AFC East teams this year can carry an international player on its practice squad that doesn’t count against the 10-man limit.
Kicker Taylor Bertolet, who made two field goals but missed three in the preseason finale against Philadelphia, remained on the initial roster.
Rookie cornerback Bless Austin was placed on the non-football injury list, while tight end Chris Herndon and linebacker Brandon Copeland were officially added to the suspended list — both for four games.
More AP NFL: 
https://apnews.com/NFL
 and 
https://twitter.com/AP_NFL
