Parts of Norfolk remain under water almost a week after the county was hit by Storm Ciarán.Some businesses and roads on the banks of some of the Broads rivers were still flooded.Volunteer flood wardens say they are trying to control the flow of water in places like Wroxham and Potter Heigham, but they need better defences.The Conservative MP for North Norfolk, Duncan Baker, said he was working with the Environment Agency and Anglian Water to find a more effective solution. 
John Goldie, manager of the discount superstore Lathams of Potter Heigham, said he had never known flooding to be so bad.The business lies close to the banks of the River Thurne which has overtopped its banks following recent high tides. "We are fighting the current water coming in at the back [of the shop]… the dyke and car park are full," Mr Goldie told BBC Radio Norfolk."Each day it takes us around three or four hours to make the business shoppable."
A flood warning issued by the Environment Agency remains in place for properties close to parts of the Thurne, Bure and Ant rivers.A similar warning for the River Waveney, between Bungay and Diss, has also been issued, while flood alerts cover parts of the River Yare, River Thet and Little Ouse River.John Prosser, from boat hire company Barnes Brinkcraft, said he had also never known flooding to be so bad."On Monday, you wouldn't have known where the river started or where the road started," he said."If you're not careful there's ropes lying down, which the boats are tied up to, and you can soon fall in. It’s very dangerous."Car parks owned by Barnes Brinkcraft and nearby Hotel Wroxham remain under water, making it difficult for customers to access the businesses.
Volunteer flood wardens in Potter Heigham have criticised the Environment Agency, claiming the town's current flood defences were not effective enough. The Conservative MP for North Norfolk, Duncan Baker, admitted the defences "were not working as well as they should do".He said he would work with the Environment Agency and Anglian Water to find a better solution. "What I'm going to do is sit down with them and say 'right, where were the most affected parts of my constituency and what are we doing to do to try and help the people and businesses here that have been hit once again?'," Mr Baker said.The Environment Agency has been contacted for comment.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
