STOCKBRIDGE, Ga. (AP) — The Latest on a documentary detailing abuse allegations against R. Kelly (all times local):
8:20 p.m.
The state’s attorney’s office for Cook County in R. Kelly’s hometown of Chicago says it is looking into calls it has received after State’s Attorney Kim Foxx asked the public to come forward with information about potential victims of the singer.
Foxx addressed reporters Tuesday after her office had been inundated with calls about abuse allegations in Lifetime’s “Surviving R. Kelly” documentary series. Some were tied to Kelly’s Chicago-area home. She said there’s no active investigation of Kelly and launching one would require victims and witnesses.
WMAQ 
reported
 that Foxx’s office said Wednesday it has received calls on the matter and is “reviewing and following up” on them, but has no additional information at this time.
The TV station also reported that Chicago police confirmed Wednesday that they conducted a “business check” at Kelly’s recording studio on the city’s West Side but “have no criminal complaints from anyone about the location.”
5 p.m.
Police in Georgia say an arrest warrant was issued last year after a man threatened a father who says singer R. Kelly has brainwashed his daughter and is keeping her from her family.
Capt. Joey Smith with the Henry County Police Department said an arrest warrant was issued for James Mason on charges of terroristic threats and acts.

        
    
A Henry County police report from May says Timothy Savage called police to report that Mason had called and threatened to kill him. Savage said he had been trying to reach his daughter but hadn’t been able to. He told police Kelly was holding his daughter.
Mason did not respond to an email Tuesday seeking comment.
The Henry County Sheriff’s Office said no one by that name had been arrested.
4 p.m.
A lawyer who represents a couple who appeared in a recent documentary detailing abuse allegations against R. Kelly says prosecutors in Georgia have reached out to him.
Atlanta-based lawyer Gerald Griggs represents Timothy and Jonjelyn Savage, who have said repeatedly that Kelly has kept their daughter from contacting them and has brainwashed her. The Savages, who live in Stockbridge, just south of Atlanta, appeared in Lifetime’s “Surviving R. Kelly” series.
Griggs said the Fulton County district attorney’s office reached out to him on Monday seeking contact information for witnesses. Griggs said he has also been contacted by prosecutors in Chicago.
Chris Hopper, a spokesman, for the Fulton County district attorney’s office, declined to comment.
A lawyer for Kelly on Tuesday said the allegations in the Lifetime documentary were false.
