Games of Thrones author George R.R Martin says he has been snubbed by one of the world's biggest sci-fi conventions, which comes to Glasgow next month.The writer, who has sold more than 90 million copies of his fantasy series, said he suggested several ideas for panels at Worldcon, but did not hear back.  However, organisers said that Mr Martin had not followed the correct application process which was in place "to ensure fairness".They said Martin, whose books were adapted into the popular Game of Thrones TV show, was welcome at the event.
Martin wrote on his blog: "I wrote the con’s programming chair back in January, and again in February, asking for his phone number so we could discuss the details.  "No phone number was forthcoming, alas, just a form letter with a link to an application and a warning that while I was welcome to apply, I could not be guaranteed a place on the programme." His further messages did not receive a reply either, meaning that he will not be on the event programme although "not for a lack of trying".Among the ideas the 75-year-old author pitched for Worldcon were a panel with writers from the Wild Cards anthology book series he writes and edits, a panel on the work of the late writer Howard Waldrop and hosting a screening of short films inspired by the work of Waldrop, who died in January.
The World Science Fiction Convention is one of the biggest sci-fi events in the world, with a focus on science fiction literature.More than 9,000 people are expected to attend.Organisers of the event, which is non-profit and run by volunteers, told BBC Scotland News:  "To ensure fairness to everyone, all proposed programme items must be submitted through our application process. "Around 2000 members submitted proposals, and we are delighted to be hosting nearly 1000 participants for more than 1,000 hours of programme items covering everything from books, movies and games to science, technology and culture."  They added that Martin would still be welcomed to the event and that there may be opportunities for fans to meet him on an informal basis.  Martin, who is famously still working on the sixth instalment of his Song of Ice and Fire saga, also confirmed that he is looking forward to attending.He wrote:  I will check out the art show, as I always do, maybe attend some bid parties, and I will be wandering the dealer’s room.  "The rest of the time I guess I may hang out in the bar, drinking with friends both old and new."The convention will run from 8 August to 12 August and will mark the third time it has been held in Glasgow, having previously been based in the city in 1995 and 2004.Panels taking place include one that will look at Scottish science fiction beyond the legendary author Iain M. Banks and one that will examine Gaelic and minority languages in science fiction.Guests appearing include award-winning author Adrian Tchaikovsky, Hugo Award winner Mary Robinette Kowal and Marvel Comics writer Charlie Jane Anders. 
