An extremely rare vinyl record by the Sex Pistols has sold for a record-breaking price at auction.The sought-after copy of the controversial single God Save the Queen was printed in 1977 to coincide with the late Queen's Silver Jubilee. About 25,000 records were withdrawn from sale following a backlash to lyrics describing the monarchy as a "fascist regime".However several copies remained in circulation, one of which was sold by vinyl record specialists Wessex Auction Rooms on 5 July for £24,320.
The single was released during the band's time with record company A&M in the 1970s.It became the most censored record in British history after being banned by the BBC and nearly every independent radio station in Britain. A&M dropped their contract with the fledgling punk rock band and all copies of the God Save the Queen single were destroyed.It later emerged, however, that some records had been retained by the company and a number of executives were gifted a copy of the single when A&M closed its London offices in 1998.
It is thought that between 13-20 of these 'golden handshake' copies exist, and they have long been considered a ‘holy grail’ item amongst both vinyl collectors and punk enthusiasts.The last one to sell at Wessex Auction Rooms in 2019 sold for a then world record of £16,400 including buyer’s premium.Whilst already one of the rarest records in the world, the latest copy to go under the hammer was even more special as it was not one of the 1998 'golden handshake' copies.The anonymous vendor of the record was said to be the first person to meet the Sex Pistols in 1977 when they came to the A&M offices where she was working on reception.When she left the company in 1984 she cleared a drawer containing a box of Sex Pistol singles, which she was given permission to keep."The current single being sold at Wessex Auction Rooms is my last one," she said."I have been holding onto it for sentimental reasons, but I feel now is the time to part company with it."I am concerned it might one day go missing or be damaged," she added.
Vinyl Record specialist and auctioneer Martin Hughes said: "The Sex Pistols will forever be an important chapter in both music history and pop culture history, and this record will remain a holy grail item for any serious collector.  "I wouldn’t be surprised to be breaking the record again if I am lucky enough to get another copy under the hammer."
The record was sold for £24,320, including buyer's premium. It was part of Wessex Auction Rooms specialist sale of Punk & New Wave records and memorabilia.Follow BBC Wiltshire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
