Business leaders from Suffolk say they have had a positive meeting with the shadow transport secretary, as they appealed for funding for two notorious rail junctions.The meeting with Louise Haigh was to ensure the upgrades of Ely and Haughley junctions would not be forgotten if there is a change of government. Ministers have promised on several occasions to fund the projects -  but so far the money has not been forthcoming. Labour said it shared frustrations over the time taken to get work started.
The campaign to improve the two junctions has been going on for almost 15 years.Business chiefs and politicians of all parties argued that upgrading Haughley junction, north of Stowmarket in Suffolk, would make it possible to run more  frequent services - particularly freight trains - between Felixstowe and the Midlands.Improving junctions and signalling at Ely North would also improve connections between Norfolk, Cambridgeshire and London, campaigners said.The cost of the projects is put at more than £500m but, despite a number of promises, they have been repeatedly delayed.
Local business leaders met Ms Haigh alongside staff representing the metro mayors from the Midlands.Paul Simon, from the Suffolk Chamber of Commerce, said: "She said she could see that the East was speaking with one voice."It was also very clear that she understood that this was the number one infrastructure ask for the region." The shadow transport secretary was told that every pound spent on the project was likely to produce £5 in benefits."It is almost beyond bizarre that such a nationally vital scheme hasn’t been given the go ahead,” said Mr Simon.
After the meeting, Labour's candidate for Ipswich, Jack Abbott, said: "We share the frustration of local people that this scheme is taking so long to implement and Louise has promised to ask questions of the government."He said that Labour could not commit to funding any new projects at the moment but added: "We fully understand the case." Last October, the government promised to fund the projects from money saved by scrapping part of HS2.  But since then, there had been no further mention of the scheme.A spokesman for the Department for Transport (DfT) told the BBC: “We are committed to delivering the upgrades. "Network Rail has developed both schemes to outline business case stage and we will set out next steps soon on further investment for its development and delivery.”
Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
