"I just couldn't do anything. My husband was having to give me baths and care for me every day," said Dr Athmaja Thottungal, of her experience with Long Covid.The anaesthesia and pain management consultant at East Kent Hospitals caught the virus at the height of the pandemic in December 2020, and was treated by a hospital team at home. While bedbound for two and a half months, the 52-year-old was nearly intubated, and feared she was going to die. But the specialist, who helped to set up a Long Covid group for staff across the NHS trust, has now scaled a mountain 18,400ft (5,600m) above sea level.
The condition - which meant she was off work for nearly four months - affected her heart, lungs and blood vessels, as well as her immune system.She needed oxygen and steroid treatments, but while in recovery, Dr Thottungal set herself the challenge of climbing Mount Kailash in Tibet.
“The trek was on my ’50 things to do before I turn 50’ list, but then Covid came along," she said.“I didn’t want to give up my dreams, even when I was short of breath after climbing a flight of stairs after Covid."She prepared for the trek by changing her diet and activity levels and implementing breathing exercises.
She embarked on the three-day trek with her husband and 11-year-old son last July, after initially setting herself the target of reaching the base."We took it very slowly with lots of time to acclimatise," she said.But after the second day, Dr Thottungal said her "oxygen levels were very low", so she had to do the third day of the trip in a vehicle while her husband and son walked.“The sense of accomplishment at the end was still huge. I may be less able than other people of my age but there is always a way if you are willing," she said.
“The whole Covid experience changed my priorities and the trek was another awakening call to appreciate and notice the little things around you and be thankful for the smallest blessing.”While she said she was "still limited in many things", the consultant is now considering a new challenge to improve her strength after Long Covid."There are still ways to achieve what I want to achieve," she said.
Follow BBC Kent on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250.
