Veteran BBC Northern Ireland broadcaster John Bennett MBE has died at the age of 82.He was one of Northern Ireland's best known radio personalities, with a broadcasting career spanning almost 60 years.Mr Bennett presented music, entertainment, sports and current affairs' programmes for the BBC, having joined the broadcaster in 1965.In a statement, his family said he passed away peacefully, surrounded by them, on Friday evening.
He co-launched BBC Radio Ulster, with Gloria Hunniford, on New Year’s Eve in 1974. He later became known for his work on The Sunday Club, which he presented for more than 44 years. Mr Bennett was born in Belfast on 12 July 1942.He was educated at the Royal Belfast Academical Institution and Stranmillis College in Belfast where he trained as a teacher, specialising in music.He then taught at Strandtown Primary School in Belfast before joining the BBC.Mr Bennett was described as having a life-long passion for music, which ultimately led to his career in broadcasting, following a studio session for the BBC.
John presented his own weekday morning show on Radio Ulster throughout the 1990s, combining music, current affairs and entertainment.His passion for football made him a go-to commentator for hundreds of live matches on the BBC, including at Wembley Arena.He also presented a range of documentaries and special programmes on BBC Radio Ulster, including two series about one of his favourite pastimes, railways, with Lost Railways and John Bennett’s Railway Journeys.In January 2023, John was awarded an MBE for services to Television and Radio Broadcasting.It was followed by his induction into the IMRO Radio Awards Hall of Fame. His citation noted that John’s career in radio had “left an indelible mark on the broadcasting landscape.”
John Bennett was married to Joan for 53 years, before she passed away in 2020. He is survived by his daughter Siobhan and son Mark.In a statement, John’s children described him  as “a consummate professional” who enjoyed a “long and celebrated career in broadcasting”.“In addition to this, he served many years as a teacher. He touched the lives of innumerable people,  and they are ever the richer for his inspiration and influence.“Northern Ireland has lost a lynchpin in local broadcasting. We, as a family, have lost a loving Father, Father-in-law and cherished Granda.”
Presenter Gloria Hunniford, who worked with Mr Bennett, said she was "saddened" to hear of his passing. "John was a giant in broadcasting," she said."We had the privilege of launching BBC Radio Ulster together and we have been friends ever since. I loved him as a person, admired him as a broadcaster and have wonderful memories of him singing. "He was a truly gifted, gracious and generous man," she added.“His contribution to audiences in Northern Ireland and beyond is immeasurable."
Adam Smyth, the director of BBC Northern Ireland, said: "John Bennett made radio presenting seem effortless. He didn’t just have listeners - he had followers. "He was always in command of his subject matter, knew what connected with people, and when to keep himself out of it. "John was with us from the very first day of Radio Ulster and has been an intrinsic part of the station ever since. It’s hard to imagine Radio Ulster without him. Our deepest condolences go to Siobhan, Mark and the whole family circle.”
Emma Dunseith, Head of Content Production, BBC Northern Ireland, said: “John was an exceptional broadcaster who made a very significant contribution to BBC Northern Ireland and BBC Radio Ulster.  "As one of Northern Ireland’s most recognisable voices, John presented with charm, wit and authenticity.""He brought much needed companionship to listeners. John’s Saturday Club and Sunday Club were places of friendship, storytelling and music; commanding a legion of fans.“Loved by audiences and colleagues alike, his dedication to listeners and respect for colleagues was in abundant supply. "Always a professional. Always humble. Always a gentleman. John will be much missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his entire family circle.”
Paul McClean, executive editor, added: “John was a special gent. A real one-off who could quote Shakespeare or Sinatra at the drop of a hat. "His warmth and mischievous sense of humour filled the corridors of our station from its birth on New Year’s Eve 1974. "We all admired and respected ‘The President’ and he will be greatly missed by all of our Radio Ulster family.”
Broadcaster Hugo Duncan described Mr Bennett as "a real gem" of Radio Ulster."I remember my very first day 26 years ago, coming into Broadcasting House full of nerves and one of the first people to put me at ease was John, who was the main morning presenter at the time," Mr Duncan said."We shared so many laughs down the years and he even sang for me on the show. I’ll miss him and his friendship greatly.”Ralph McLean, who also presents on Radio Ulster, said it was "a very sad day for radio in Northern Ireland" after the passing of "the head of the household"."He was the consummate professional on air and the epitome of a gentleman off it."The very first job I did in the BBC was working with John on his morning radio show... on the Monday we started I had to travel with him to Butlins in Ayr to record some shows. "The craic was 90 from start to finish and I remember thinking I’d landed the best job in the world. We were firm friends from that moment on and shared many a laugh. "Lately I’ve had the privilege of sitting in for him on his Saturday and Sunday Club shows and to see the love and esteem he’s held in by his loyal 'club members' has been both humbling and truly moving. "
