EDINBURG — Moments before he was to be sentenced in connection with his 11th DWI, a Mission man suffered an apparent seizure that caused his case to be delayed.
During a hearing Wednesday, state District Judge Juan R. Partida was scheduled to sentence Guillermo Garcia Jr. based on an agreement reached by prosecutors and his attorney.
There was a question of whether Garcia had already agreed, as part of a plea deal, to plead guilty to all three of the pending DWI cases against him.
Right before the sentencing Garcia’s attorney told Hidalgo County Assistant District Attorney Lauren Sepulveda that Garcia wished to plead no contest instead; a decision not mentioned to Sepulveda, resulting in a brief recess so that the paperwork could reflect the change made by Garcia.
His hearing was rescheduled for after the lunch break to make the necessary changes to the official paperwork.
But the 56-year-old man didn’t appear in court at 1:30 p.m. as scheduled.
It wasn’t until 2:30 that Garcia, who was accompanied by a few family members, showed up after he said he became ill during the court’s lunch break, court staff said.
Court staff offered to call emergency personnel to treat the man but he and his family declined.
Garcia, who was unable to speak, eventually entered the courtroom, holding a handkerchief to his mouth as he slowly made his way to the front of the courtroom and sat down as he was too sick to stand before the judge.

        
    
Santos Maldonado Jr., Garcia’s attorney, told Partida that the man had a seizure related to a medical condition in the court’s parking lot while awaiting his sentencing.
“He seems confused,” Maldonado told the court. “I don’t feel comfortable going forward today because of this condition my client has.”
Ultimately Partida agreed to Maldonado’s motion for a new setting to give Garcia an opportunity to see a neurologist to look at the medical issues he’s claiming to have experienced.
Garcia, who has DWI-related arrests dating back to 1987, is expected back in court Monday where he is expected to be sentenced, according to court records.
Garcia has two prior DWI-related convictions; once in July 2009, and once in January 2013. In both instances, a judge sentenced the man to prison time, 8 years and 5 years respectively, but the prison stints were suspended and instead he was to complete community service, court records show.
[email protected]
