Graham Stuart has been re-elected as Conservative MP for Beverley and Holderness following a recount.The former energy minister won by just 124 votes, with 15,501, beating the Labour candidate Margaret Pinder into second place.The BBC understands the recount was down to a technicality, rather than a request from a candidate.Mr Stuart – whose majority was almost 20,500 in 2019 – said it had been a "humbling night" and he wanted to "learn from the lessons" of the Conservative party's nationwide losses.
Elsewhere in East Yorkshire, Sir David Davis, the former Brexit Secretary, won in the newly formed constituency of Goole and Pocklington.Sir David, who formerly represented Haltemprice and Howden, received 18,981 votes, while Labour's Liam Draycott was second with 15,409 votes.In Bridlington and the Wolds, another new constituency, Charlie Dewhirst was elected for the Conservatives with 14,846 votes.Mr Dewhirst, who stood down as deputy leader of East Riding of Yorkshire Council to contest the seat, won a three-way battle with  Labour's Sarah Carter (11,721) and Reform's Maria Bowtell (10,350). 

In Hull, Labour's Emma Hardy won with a majority of nearly 9,000 in the redrawn constituency of Hull West and Haltemprice.Ms Hardy, who represented Hull West and Hessle until the boundaries were reviewed, received 17,875 votes, ahead of Reform UK's Julie Peck (8,896), who beat the Conservative candidate Rachel Storer into third place.In her acceptance speech, Ms Hardy said it was a “huge honour” and vowed to represent every constituent. “This election has been about change," she added.Karl Turner was re-elected as the MP for Hull East – where the turnout was just 41% – with an increased majority.While waiting for the result, Mr Turner delivered a scathing assessment of the Conservatives. "We’ve had more prime ministers than Doctor Whos," he said. "The Tories have been exterminated."In the north of the city, Dame Diana Johnson won the redrawn seat of Hull North & Cottingham for Labour with 18,480 votes. Martin Baker came second for Reform UK, with 7,801.
Analysis by Sarah Sanderson, Political Reporter, BBC East Yorkshire and LincolnshireThe city of Hull once again remains a Labour stronghold.Two of the constituencies, Hull West & Haltemprice and Hull North & Cottingham, saw changes in last year’s review by the Boundary Commission, with each reaching further into the East Riding of Yorkshire.Nevertheless, both Labour candidates held on to their seats, as did Karl Turner in Hull East. Reform UK came second in all three constituencies and Labour will no doubt be asking how they can regain the confidence of voters who have turned their backs on the main political parties.The MPs are returning to Westminster with a new Labour government at the helm, but issues on local doorsteps – such as poverty, housing and the cost of living – will  remain a challenge for them and their leader, Sir Keir Starmer.Meanwhile, the East Riding constituencies stayed blue, despite the national trend.  Voters in the new seat of Bridlington and the Wolds elected Charlie Dewhirst, a former local councillor and senior advisor to the pig industry, for the Conservatives. It was a close call in Beverley and Holderness, with Graham Stuart hanging on by a thread, while Sir David Davis will return to Westminster in the new seat of Goole and Pocklington.Follow BBC East Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastyorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
