BRIDGEPORT — They say persistence is a virtue.
To his mother, Mark Leigh-James’ persistence showed in his hard work. From laboring on his father’s construction site to working his way through community college as a real estate agent in Stratford, the 24-year-old Bridgeport resident exuded a work ethic.
But what if that persistence was also a vice?
Leigh-James, was sentenced Friday to 10 years behind bars and five years of supervised release, according to a statement released by United States Attorney Deirdre M. Daly.
According to the prosecutor and police, Leigh-James’ work ethic went into cultivating connections to sell some of the purest methamphetamine in Connecticut.
Leigh-James had stared down the barrel of a possible life sentence, but took a plea deal in June.
“While excessive, the 120-month sentence was sadly the mandatory minimum sentence that Judge (Steafan) Underhill had no legal authority to reduce,” said Frank Riccio, Leigh-James’ attorney.
Without specifying whether Leigh-James was a chemist producing the meth or just a middleman connected to a real-world Heisenberg of “Breaking Bad” proportions, police said, he told an undercover cop that he could get “as much” meth as the agent wanted.
Leigh-James wholesaled about $11,600 worth of methamphetamine in two separate deals, according to the Department of Justice.
He was arrested in October of last year on multiple charges of drug dealing and possession of stolen and/or unregistered firearms, according to the U.S. Attorney.

        
    
Police said that when they found him, he was exiting the Housatonic Community College with a loaded gun in his waistband and drugs in his school bag. Agents said they found a loaded .44 magnum revolver, and a loaded .380 handgun that had been reported stolen in Stratford.
“When all this happened, I was in shock,” his mother said in a defense-attorney’s interview. “He’s a humble person. He goes to church,” she said, describing him as “quiet, mild, and respectful,” according to a pre-sentencing document.
In the case prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Amy C. Brown, Leigh-James pleaded guilty to one count each of possession with intent to distribute and sales of meth, as well as one count of possession of a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking crime.
The prosecutor complained in her sentencing memo that he had never fully expressed regret.
It’s Leigh-James’ first criminal conviction, but he is also facing drug and gun charges from a previous arrest in a case that hasn’t gone to trial.
When Leigh-James got taken down in front of Housatonic, he was on bond for separate drug and weapons charges. He had been arrested, allegedly with oxycodone he planned to sell, and another loaded gun.
His lawyer said Leigh-James plans to clean up his act.
“My client, college educated with his real estate license, intends on improving his own life through continued vocational training,” Riccio said. “Though disappointed with the result, he continues to have the full support of his family.”
