A medical student who was paralysed from the waist down after falling from a tree has graduated as a doctor and is set to balance a medical career with Paralympics training.Xander Van der Poll was 19 when he climbed an ancient oak tree in Lavender Hall Park in Balsall Common, Solihull, while on a dog walk near his family home in 2018.He slipped and fell three metres (9.8 feet) on to the roots below - breaking his back and puncturing a lung. Surgeons spent nine hours operating and the keen rugby player remained in hospital for four months.
Exactly six weeks from his accident, he took his first-year medical exams from his hospital bed - with the University of Bristol sending an invigilator there.Six years on, the 25-year-old who lives near Coventry, has graduated as Dr Van der Poll.
The graduate, working in A&E at a Birmingham hospital and in training for the Paralympics in 2028, said of his fall: "I really did a number on myself."You just don't expect it to happen to you. I was in incredible pain for a few weeks and I was really worried about all the things I couldn't do. I thought I wouldn't be able to be a doctor, play rugby or just have a normal life.He added: "I was really lucky to have my family around me. My mum sat by my side every single day."
The university paid tribute to Dr Van der Poll, whom it said had "aced" medical school and won an achievement award as well as excelling at several para sports including athletics, rowing and basketball.He eventually found canoeing and now paddles a va'a - a one-person, double-hulled boat used for millennia in Polynesia and now used in paracanoe rowing.Dr Van der Poll said: "People's opinions are actually a lot more debilitating than your actual disability."People told me all sorts after the accident. During one medical placement, a doctor sat me down and listed all the things I couldn't do."The funny thing was, the list was all based on assumptions, and none of the assumptions were actually true."
The canoeist recently competed in his first European Championships, where he missed out on the finals by 0.2 seconds, and is a hopeful for the 2028 Los Angeles Games.He and his wife, Kirsty Van der Poll, who is an amputee, run the Instagram account ourchaoticadventure, which is aimed at destigmatising disability to their 11,500 followers."It shows us living every day like it's our last and like it's a gift," Dr Van der Poll said.
Follow BBC Birmingham on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
