The shadow environment secretary has pledged to change the formula for funding coastal defence programmes.
Labour's Steve Reed met members of Save Hemsby Coastline on Tuesday to see the storm-damaged coast.
He said Labour would value tourism and hospitality as well as residential property if it succeeded at the next general election.
The government says it has doubled spending on coastal and flood defences and is helping communities at risk.
In October, the Conservative MP for Great Yarmouth, and the local authorities, said Hemsby did not qualify for funds.
Save Hemsby Coastline is due to hand in a petition to 10 Downing Street on 29 January, calling for funding to be allocated for a rock defence scheme.
But on a visit to the coast, Mr Reed said the issue for Hemsby was that the impact of erosion on hospitality and tourism did not form part of the funding criteria.
"If Labour is elected into government we will change the criteria... to protect people's lives, homes and livelihoods from the impacts of coastal erosion," he said.
"We aren't talking about a single penny of additional taxpayers' money to do this. 
"This is a pot of funding, £5bn, available up until 2027." 
He added: "The door is closed to Hemsby because you can't make a bid because of the impact on tourism and hospitality. 
"We can change the criteria so Hemsby has a chance to get its future back and that is something I will commit to delivering."
A spokesperson from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) said: "We know the devastating impact flooding and coastal erosion can have, including in Norfolk, which is why we have a long-term vision to better protect communities across England from flooding and coastal erosion. 
"This includes doubling our investment in flood and coastal erosion schemes in England to £5.2bn between 2021 and 2027. 
"We are also investing £36m in the Coastal Transition Accelerator Programme in a number of small of coastal areas at significant risk of coastal erosion, including in Norfolk, to look at how we transition and adapt to a changing climate."    
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
