Cleveland’s Welshly Arms on the success of ‘Legendary’ and their hometown roots
CLEVELAND, Ohio - Welshly Arms has spent the last year touring the world, playing festivals to thousands of fans and making their late-night debut on “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” But when it came time for the bluesy indie rockers to begin recording their forthcoming album, there was only one choice: A studio tucked away in a house in their native Cleveland.
They’ll return to play 7 p.m., Wednesday, Nov. 22, at the House of Blues Cleveland, 308 Euclid Ave. Orchestral indie pop act Seafair and The Waves will join.
The six-piece originally slated their second full-length for a spring release. But then their single “Legendary,” the anthemic track released in July 2016, slowly started climbing the charts, eventually going gold in Germany and Switzerland. In January, they signed with Universal Music Group (Vertigo/Capitol) in Europe and Republic Records in the U.S.
“I knew we were really excited about the song; we knew that it was accessible,” says frontman Sam Getz. “But I never really imagined it being on the radio like this.”
Meant to be
It wasn’t hard to see their star was rising from their early days in Cleveland, when the then-quartet was selling out local clubs like the Beachland Ballroom. But the success has been a long time coming.
Getz, raised on blues and soul, began performing at 14 with his Sam Getz Band and eventually alongside Kate Voegel and Stephen Kellogg and the Sixers. He later formed Cactus 12 with Welshly bassist-vocalist Jimmy Weaver and drummer Mikey Gould. Keyboardist-vocalist Brett Lindemann joined the fold when Welshly Arms recorded their debut EP, “Welcome,” in 2013.

        
    
Their first single, “Two Seconds Too Late” racked up YouTube views. The sleek black-and-white video contrasted with their scruffy, blistering Midwestern rock and drew instant comparisons to The White Stripes and The Black Keys.
Another big boost came after their track “Never Meant to Be” was featured in a 2014 video by local tourism bureau, Positively Cleveland (now Destination Cleveland). Their song “Dirty Work” landed in a promo for the Cleveland Indians, and they grabbed the national spotlight when their music appeared in the trailer for Quentin Tarantino’s “The Hateful Eight” and the Netflix original series “Sense8.” The momentum showed no sign of slowing.
In 2015, they brought in Bri and Jon Bryant to add vocals on their self-titled full-length. Soon after, they became permanent members of the band, accompanying them for live performances and cementing a signature soulful sound.
“Now we have the luxury of counting on that and knowing we can have those big vocals,” Getz says. “They bring their own vibe and energy to it. For me, it gives me an extra confidence in writing, knowing we’re going to be able to pull off these kinds of songs that lean on those vocals.”
It’s added new dimension to their current writing – but don’t think they’re straying from the formula that’s worked so well.
“We’re trying a lot of new things, but relying on the things we love to do,” Getz says. “A lot of that is big, gospel, old soul vocals. We really lean into analog keyboard, Hammond organ, Wurlitzer piano – along with all the bluesy guitar stuff and rock and roll drums.”
A “Legendary” year
Some of that can be heard on this August’s “Legendary” EP, an electrifying, hook-laden four-track collection with endless swagger. With the runaway success of the single, the band felt it deserved a home of its own, and built the EP’s track list around songs they already had in the works.
“I think a lot of the themes of the other songs on the EP make sense with ‘Legendary,’” Getz says. “It’s about going through struggles and following through and coming out on top. Going through some of the worst in life and realizing you’re stronger and better because of it.”
The EP was more polished than the familiar gritty rock and roll made by some kids from Cleveland – until the closing track, “Never Be the Same,” whipped listeners back into a rowdy, roughed-up frenzy.
It was crafted as the perfect song to close out any set list, Getz says, a reminder that above all, they want to make music that’s just plain fun to play live.
And for good reason. On the tails of the success of the “Legendary” EP, they’ve spent the last year winding their way through France, Belgium, Austria and across the U.S. After their House of Blues Cleveland show, they’ll hit the road for more cross-country shows, sharing the bill with acts like Portugal. The Man, Phoenix, Run the Jewels and Vance Joy.
You’d think they’d be used to this by now.
“In Switzerland, we did a really fun festival at a huge stadium,” Getz recalls. “There were pyrotechnics and fireworks going off at our feet. It was like, ‘What did we just get ourselves into?’ We’d get out of our van at some shows, and there’s be lines of people waiting. It’s the kind of stuff you’d see on TV but never really thought you’d be a part of. It’s kind of a different world overseas, and I think they really appreciate American music and an American band bringing it to them.”
Of course, as Clevelanders, one thing binds them together no matter where the tour van stops for the day: Sports. On the road, you can find them in the green room or a local bar checking the scores.
“We’re all sports fans here,” Weaver says. “When the Indians were in the playoffs, we were playing a festival and we walked around for 45 minutes looking for somewhere showing the game. Last year, we had to watch game seven of the World Series from the Beacon Theatre in New York.”
Between cheering on their home teams, the band still finds time to write while touring, but reserve most of the work for their time in Cleveland. They find their groove at the home studio, where Getz and Weaver might break away from recording by toying around with a Motown cover here or there for old time’s sake.
Weaver has been handling the bulk of the recording himself.
“We built this band doing everything ourselves, so we got used to that DIY approach,” Weaver says. “It’s laidback, so we don’t feel rushed. We kind of just wanted to keep that same vibe with recording new songs, and I couldn’t imagine doing it as good as I think we’re doing it right now if we were under the pressure of being in a recording studio.”
You can find them there nearly any day they’re in Cleveland. And having that many people in their crew keeps them tethered to their roots, whether in the studio or on the road. It’s a tight knit group, more like a family that grows closer with each success – at home and abroad.
“It’s the most fun thing to be on the stage with five other people who play their hearts out,” Getz says. “It feels like a dream come true to be able to make the kind of music you hear in your head and pull it off live. We’re getting really comfortable with each other. It’s constantly evolving, everyone’s chops are getting better and I think everyone’s just having a little more fun.”
