HUNTINGTON — A Huntington man convicted last year of sexually assaulting three young girls in Cabell and Wayne counties faces sentencing Thursday that could potentially send him to prison for the rest of his life.
Michael Daniel Vega, 49, was convicted in November 2017 of 20 counts of sexual abuse by a person in position of trust, seven counts of first-degree sexual assault and 13 counts of first-degree sexual abuse. He faces 440 to 1,425 years in prison when he is sentenced by Cabell Circuit Judge Paul T. Farrell, plus an additional 50 years of supervised release should he ever be paroled out of prison.
He is already serving a five-to 25-year prison sentence, with 40 years of post-release supervision, after he was convicted of a similar charge in Wayne County
In all, five young girls have said they were sexually assaulted by Vega, but Cabell County prosecutors have not moved forward with the remaining charges for the final two accusers.
The allegations against Vega started in 2016 when an employee at an Ona group home noticed a girl break down during a family visit. From there, meetings with West Virginia state troopers led to the disclosure of allegations against Vega by five different females. At the time of their rapes, the Cabell County victims who testified at his trial were 10 and 11.
Around 2011, the girls had been friends with a child Vega knew and who lived at the same Westmoreland apartment complex as they did. Vega would take the girls to the park, out to eat and other places, the victims said, and they would also spend time at his apartment on 2nd Street in Huntington.

        
    
While having little connection to one another in the years since the attacks, the girls’ stories told at trial were similar in nature. Both mentioned a “tickle” game that took place on the bed in Vega’s apartment. Both said he would sexually assault them while they took driving lessons and said he had offered to buy them clothing, phones and other items.
His attorney Tim Rosinsky previously said there were more than 100 inconsistencies in the stories the girls gave since the cases started.
Prior to the trial, Vega had turned down a plea offer to two counts of sexual abuse by a person in a position of trust, which has a 10- to 20-year penalty per count, telling Farrell even if he had offered him “a slap on the wrist” he would have turned it down, declaring his innocence.
He is currently housed at Mount Olive Correctional Center in Moundsville, West Virginia.
Assistant prosecutors Joe Fincham and Ryan Hamady have led the prosecution on that case.
Follow reporter Courtney Hessler at Facebook.com/CHesslerHD and via Twitter @HesslerHD.
