Sir Keir Starmer will have had an an early opportunity to make a good impression with fellow European leaders at Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire.He is hosting about 50 leaders for the fourth European Political Community summit on Thursday.The World Heritage Site, usually a big pull to the town, has been closed since the weekend and road closures will remain until Friday.But outside the cordon in Woodstock, a stone's throw from the palace, the summit got a mixed reception.
Geoffrey Naf, who runs Woodstock Butchers, predicts trade has been hit by about 50%."A lot of my locals can’t get in from the outlying villages because the roads are closed," he said."I have had everyone asking me, 'Are we even bothering to open on Thursday?'"He added: "Obviously, I’m here, I’ve got work to do and hopefully might make a few pounds over the till - but I'm not feeling very hopeful about today."
Mark Harris, from Woodstock Grocers, said his business was set to lose between £500 and £1,000 because of the summit."People are frightened to come into Woodstock," he said."All the signs coming into Woodstock say avoid the area, so what shoppers are going to be here? None," he said. Is he proud the summit is being held in Oxfordshire? "No," he replied."It shouldn't be here. It should be somewhere where it's not going to be affecting locals." 
Former US president Donald Trump visited Blenheim Palace, and the then prime minister Theresa May, on the first part of his first UK visit in July 2018.  But it is thought this is the most leaders the palace - famed as Sir Winston Churchill's birthplace - has hosted at the same time.Yet despite some irritation at the road closures and disruption, there is plenty of local pride and excitement.
Dog walker Isabelle Phillips had a challenging morning stroll around Woodstock.She said her dog Peggy loves officers in uniform and hi-vis jackets. "We’ve been playing a little game of count the police officer to see how many we can say hello to," she said. "I think it’s because the palace staff at the gates always have a tin of dog biscuits. And so anyone who is in any type of uniform, or high-vis jacket, she thinks has treats."
Janey Velasquez is a teacher at Woodstock Primary School."I’m excited to see the children coming in this morning because I know there will be a lot of talk about it," she said."We’re proud to be on Blenheim’s doorstep - we’re kind of relishing it."It’s quite nice to turn on the TV and see our local landmark there; it makes us feel important."On a personal level, getting into work was "probably easier than normal", she said."The only difference was that I had a policeman at the bottom of my road and that's never happened before. I get the bus and it was on time and empty so I'm winning." 
Bethan NimmoPolitical reporter, BBC Radio OxfordThe town is relatively quiet, apart from so many police officers. There are police officers on bikes, police officers on horses, there are armed police walking around Woodstock - which is not something you usually see.Then through the town we’ve seen motorcade after motorcade to get world leaders - from Oxford Airport I imagine - straight into the palace itself.
Calum Miller, Bicester and Woodstock's Lib Dem MP - who was elected earlier this month, said he was aware there was a “mix” of feelings about the summit.“I’m aware many have been inconvenienced by what’s going on but it’s also, I hope, a source of real pride to have all of these leaders coming to our beautiful part of Oxfordshire to meet and have some really important discussions over the course of the day,” he added.
Peter Henley Political editor, BBC SouthBlenheim Palace is a magnificent setting for the arrivals they've flown into Oxford Airport and an hour this morning was taken up with the new prime minister Sir Keir Starmer greeting each foreign politician as they arrived.This is quite a test for the new government, not just striking the right tone and trying to get progress on hugely challenging issues like immigration and the war in Ukraine, but this is the first time this huge meeting has been hosted by the UK. President Macron of France described it as an opportunity for a reset in our relationship with Europe.Journalists used to attending these gatherings say this is mega - closest only to the United Nations and the arrangements have been hugely complex. 
Among facilities laid on, there’s a gelato truck serving refreshments in the sun, and Blenheim’s friendly ducks have been entertaining everyone.Getting on for 1,000 journalists have been brought in through Oxford Parkway station this morning, a fleet of buses taking us in through the gates of the palace to work in air-conditioned tents that have been set up in the grounds, with a live feed of all the discussions inside.So far the sun has shone and the atmosphere inside has not been too frosty, but with so many different political leaders here still anything could happen.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X (Twitter), or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2240.
