The world's largest independent cruise port operator is set to take over Liverpool's cruise liner terminal.
Global Ports Holding (GPH) has signed a 50 year agreement with Peel Ports Group, which will see up to £25m investment, including the construction of a new terminal building.
The cruise liner port has welcomed over 800 vessels and 1m passengers to the city since it was established in 2007.
Mehmet Kutman of GPH said the city is "a key location for tourism".
"Liverpool boasts a rich maritime heritage," Mr Kutman, the chairman and chief executive officer of GPH said, adding the move was an "important milestone" for the company which was looking to "enhance the success of this remarkable destination".
The investment, which is subject to the granting of appropriate permits and licenses, would include the addition of a new floating pontoon that would increase capacity and allow for the simultaneous berthing of two 300-metre ships and up to 7,000 passengers a day.
It would also feature waterfront retail and hospitality spaces.
Liverpool City Council, which has manged the terminal since 2007, announced it was looking for a third party operator last year.
David Huck, chief operating officer at Peel Ports Group said the authority's stewardship of the port had "truly transformed the city into a thriving cruise tourism destination".
"We see this new chapter as an opportunity for us to build upon that legacy," he said.
Peel Ports Group's subsidiary, The Mersey Docks And Harbour Company Ltd, will operate services at the port which GPH said is as a gateway to the growing northern European and Britain cruise markets for international and domestic passengers.
Andrew Lewis, chief executive of Liverpool City Council, said the authority would work closely with GPH "to support their ambitions, and to extending a warm welcome to many more visitors to Liverpool".
Why not follow BBC Merseyside on Facebook, X and Instagram? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
