Civic and faith leaders have held a peace vigil in Oxford, calling for understanding across the city's diverse communities. 
Oxfordshire's council and local faith leaders invited residents to the vigil in Broad Street on Sunday evening. 
In a joint statement, they said it was "an act of solidarity with those who suffer on all sides" in the Gaza war.
About 500 people attended the event and lit torches and candles in support of the initiative.
The leaders of Oxford City Council, Oxfordshire County Council and Cherwell, South Oxfordshire, Vale of the White Horse and West Oxfordshire district councils joined faith leaders to reflect on the importance "of commitment to friendship and respect and understanding".
The Bishop of Oxford, The Right Reverend Dr Steven Croft, Imam Monawar Hussain, founder of the Oxford Foundation, and Louise Gordon, vice president of the Oxford Jewish Congregation, offered reflections and words of comfort.
They said they held "all the victims and their loved ones in our prayers".
In a statement, the faith and community leaders said they were aware of the need "to draw together the diverse communities of Oxfordshire at this time and renew bonds of friendship, and a common commitment to peace".
"Together, we are horrified by the violence that we are seeing in Israel and Palestine, and the suffering of ordinary people who have lost loved ones and who fear for their own lives and for friends and family members," the statement read.
Dr Croft said it was "really important not to allow conflicts on the other side of the world to divide communities here".
He also said it was "so vital" to draw people together "in friendship and love and neighbourliness" to "build a good city and continue to build a good county".
Ms Gordon said she felt "tearful" and "surprised" at the vigil's turnout, and described the support as "overwhelming".
She said: "Unfortunately we can't solve the problems that are bigger than us, that are out in the world. 
"But what we can do is wish each other well and extend a hand of friendship to each person that we encounter in a small way.
"We see so much airtime given to the shouting, or whatever is loudest, but the silence that we share is extremely loud if we only listen to it."
Imam Monawar Hussain said residents had come together as a "community of communities in Oxfordshire for peace". 
He added: "We must stand up against anti-Semitism, against Islamophobia.
"The key is that we continue to engage young people in safe spaces and provide arguments against any forms of extremism, and give them peaceful means to engage in society and express themselves."
The leaders said they would meet regularly in the coming months to give a collective voice in promoting understanding, peace and strong community relations across the area.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk.
