Plans to end free parking in two Somerset towns would be a "nightmare" that would lose high streets customers, local businesses claim.
Shoppers in Midsomer Norton and Radstock currently park for free at council car parks.
But charges for those car parks could soon be brought in as part of Bath and North East Somerset Council's plans to balance its budget.
The authority said it is having to make "difficult choices".
The price of a parking ticket would depend on the emissions of your vehicle, the same way that council car parks in Bath now work. 
The plans - which are open for consultation until 15 January - would also see this method of pricing across Keynsham, Saltford, and all remaining on and off street locations in Bath.
Mike Burstone of Midsomer Norton model shop Signals warned it would "kill the town".
He said: "That's the worst thing they could do. How many towns do you see with free parking? Not many." 
Hairdresser Mel at Razor Cuts in neighbouring Radstock said: "There's hardly anywhere to park in Radstock anyway, and obviously for our customers and things it would be a nightmare."
Karen Starr, who runs Out of Asia on Midsomer Norton High Street, said: "If they start charging for the car park, they are going to destroy this town completely, as there isn't much left anyway."
Bath and North East Somerset Council is expecting to make £195,000 a year through ending free parking in the neighbouring towns, the wider rollout of emissions-based parking, and inflationary price increases. 
Mark Elliott, the cabinet member for resources, said: "We are currently going through our budget consultation and have been clear about some very difficult choices that will need to be made, in the light of squeezed budgets and rising demand.
"Charging would make it easier for shoppers to find parking by encouraging turnover of spaces, however no decision has been taken yet and I would encourage traders and residents to take part in the budget consultation and have their say."
The council is facing a budget gap in the next financial year of £24.53m.
Follow BBC West on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: bristol@bbc.co.uk 
