JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. (AP) — A graphic report released by a Missouri House investigative committee details multiple instances in which a woman 
said Gov. Eric Greitens spanked, slapped, grabbed, shoved and called her derogatory names
 during a series of sexual encounters as he was preparing to run for office in 2015. Greitens, who did not testify to or provide documents to the committee, called the report lies resulting from a political witch hunt.
Here are some of the details in 
the committee’s report
 unveiled Wednesday.
The woman testified that she met Greitens in 2013, when he came into her salon for a haircut. The woman said she and Greitens conversed regularly about his past.
“I knew that he was an author, I knew he was a motivational speaker, I knew he was a Navy SEAL. I knew he had volunteered at the Mother Theresa House (sic),” she testified. “I don’t want to say that he was speaking highly of himself, but he found a way to tell me these things, and so I just thought he was wonderful.”
AN APPOINTMENT
After months of not seeing Greitens at the salon, the woman testified that he came in for an appointment in March 2015, after she had just separated from her husband. She said he was obviously flirting with her, telling her, “You’re glowing today.”
As she shampooed his hair, and he lay back in the chair, he ran his hand up her leg “all the way up to my crotch,” she testified, adding that “I stepped back and was like, ‘What are you doing?’”

        
    
A ‘SEXY WORKOUT’
The woman testified that at Greitens’ invitation she went to his home in St. Louis before work on March 21, 2015, going in through the back door. The woman testified that Greitens told her, “I have this idea and it’s to make you feel good. I feel like you haven’t been treated good in so long.” He asked her if she has exercised.
She testified that Greitens gave her clothes to change into, a man’s white T-shirt with a slit cut by him at the top and men’s pajama pants. Greitens said he would show her “how to do a proper pullup.”
She testified: “I thought this was going to be some sort of, like, sexy workout.”
IN THE BASEMENT
Once in his basement, Greitens taped her hands to pull-up rings, blindfolded her, started kissing her, ripped open the shirt and pulled down her pants, the woman testified. She didn’t give consent to be disrobed or kissed, the report said. The woman testified that she then heard a click, like of a cellphone picture, and saw a flash.
The woman testified that Greitens told her: “Don’t even mention my name to anybody at all, because if you do, I’m going to take these pictures, and I’m going to put them everywhere I can. They are going to be everywhere, and then everyone will know what a little whore you are.”
‘COERCED, MAYBE’
When she remained silent, the woman said Greitens “spanked me and said, ‘Are you going to mention my name?’ And I said, I just gritted through my teeth, and I said, ‘No.’ And he’s like, ‘Good, now that’s a good girl.’”
“I was definitely fearful,” the woman testified.
After telling Greitens, “I don’t want this,” the woman testified that Greitens unbound her hands. She said she started “uncontrollably crying.” She said Greitens then grabbed her in a hug and laid her down. She said he put his penis near her face and she gave him oral sex. Asked by the committee whether the oral sex was coerced, she responded: “Coerced, maybe. I felt as though that would allow me to leave.”
RETURNING TO THE HOUSE
The woman testified that she left her keys at Greitens’ home and returned to retrieve them, confronting him about the picture.
“And I said, ‘No, you took a freaking picture of me. My husband doesn’t even have a picture of me. You took a picture of me.’ And he said, ‘I know ... but you have to understand, I’m running for office, and people will get me, and I have to have some sort of thing to protect myself. And I thought about you, though, and I felt bad, so I erased it.’”
‘TRYING TO CLAIM ME’
The woman testified that when she went to Greitens’ home in June 2015, they went to a spare bedroom and he asked her whether she had “been intimate” with anyone else since they had started. When she named her estranged husband, he slapped her across the face, she testified.
She testified that he told her, “you’re mine” and, “You are not supposed to be sleeping with him, you know?”
She said she told him, “I think you’re screwed up from being in the Navy.”
She also said that she did not believe the slap was meant to hurt her but, “I felt like he was trying to claim me.”
LAST ENCOUNTER
The woman testified that during their last sexual encounter, on a morning a little later, Greitens “kind of smacked me and grabbed me and shoved me down on the ground.” She worried that it might have left a mark but did not take a photo at the time.
She said Greitens approached her later that day and he told her that someone had emailed his wife. She testified that she told him that they should not see each other again.
GREITENS DOESN’T TESTIFY
Greitens did not testify, provide documents or answer written questions. His attorneys said having Greitens testify before his criminal trial on a felony invasion-of-privacy charge would violate his right to a fair trial. They also said he was restricted in producing materials because of a nondisclosure order in his criminal case.
“Thus, to the extent this report does not include Greitens’ perspective, that is the result of his choice not to participate,” the committee said. “While disappointing to the Committee, his failure to participate is not held by the Committee as an indication of the truthfulness of the allegations.”
