Derbyshire's highest ever temperature was recorded on Monday, beating the previous record in 2019. 
It reached 36.9C in Coton-in-the-Elms, Derbyshire, beating 36.1C recorded previously in Watnall, Nottinghamshire.
However, the record is unlikely to last long with temperatures of up to 42C in some parts forecast later.
A Met Office warning for extreme heat remains in place for a second day and there is continued disruption at schools, on the railways and in sport.
Whilst Derbyshire recorded the highest temperature in the region on Monday, new records were also set in Nottinghamshire and Leicestershire.
In Sutton Bonington, the temperature peaked at 36.7C, and in Market Bosworth, it was 35.9C.
Derbyshire's previous highest temperature was 34.9C, also at Coton-in-the-Elms, in July 2019, and 35.1C was recorded at the University of Leicester in August 2003.
Derbyshire County Council said it had responded to 12 reports of melting roads so far, including the A617 Hasland bypass and Chatsworth Road in Chesterfield.
It said sand was being used to soak up excess bitumen.
Nottinghamshire County Council has been sending out gritters to spread dust on some road surfaces.
It said: "Busy roads may be damaged when air temperatures reach extreme levels.
"To avoid this, granite dust will be spread to soak up excess bitumen and help stop the roads from being damaged."
Road surfaces older than 1995 are being prioritised.
After that date, roads were surfaced with a higher softening point of about 80C, the authority said.
Cooler temperatures have been forecast for the rest of the week but there is now a new weather warning in place.
The Met Office has issued a yellow warning for thunderstorms covering parts Leicestershire and Rutland from 13:00 BST on Wednesday.
It said this could cause disruption with flooding and a risk of lightning strikes.
East Midlands Railway has for a second day advised all passengers against using its trains as the extreme heat can cause the track to buckle and bend, posing a serious safety risk.
A spokesman said: "The track is typically 20C warmer than the air above.
"As a result, and to keep everyone safe, a speed limit of just 60mph will be in place.
"Journeys will take twice as long as normal and return services are likely to be cancelled."
A limited number of services were running to and from London this morning but trains on the Intercity route are now starting and terminating at Leicester.
London North Eastern Railway services, which usually stop at Newark Northgate and Retford, are not running any services south of York and Leeds.
There is significant disruption to tram services in Nottingham, with a reduced timetable in operation.
Operator NET said trams were fitted with temperature controls but were "struggling to cope with the excessive heat".
"We are withdrawing several trams from service for cooling as they are not fit for passenger service," it said.
"As they cool we are then switching for others that require cooling."
East Midlands Airport said it had not experienced any heat-related disruption like at other airports.
Passengers have been told they can fill up water bottles at fountains, cafes or restaurants once they have passed through security.
Several schools remain closed for a second day due to the heat, including The Nottingham Emmanuel School and The Long Eaton School.
Holgate Academy in Hucknall, Nottinghamshire, has closed after opening on Monday as it experienced "exceptionally hot weather conditions".
A friendly football match between Buxton FC and Barnsley has been called off because of the extreme heat.
A statement issued by the club said: "Barnsley have raised some concerns regarding the expected warm weather and we've decided to postpone the match."
In cricket, Derbyshire's County Championship match against Nottinghamshire is going ahead.
For those seeking a place to cool down the Diocese of Derby has recommended going to church.
It said: "Feel free to come inside to enjoy some coolness and calm and enjoy the history and tranquillity of our ancient church buildings."
Animal owners have also been finding ways to keep their pets cool.
A gazebo has been put up to provide extra shelter for goats living in Ambergate, Derbyshire.
Cows in Mapleton, Derbyshire, have been seen using "natures gazebo" to keep out of the sun.
Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk.
