The family of Jay Slater have left a series of poignant messages close to the area where the 19-year-old's body was discovered.One was left next to a single rose and read: "Love you little bro. Never in a million years did I think I'd be doing this. I'll look after mum and dad."Another was tied with a blue ribbon and signed with: "To my boy. Love Dad, always."Mr Slater, from Oswaldtwistle, was formally identified as the body discovered in a ravine in the Masca area of Tenerife on Monday, almost a month after he first disappeared.
The charity LBT Global told the BBC it was helping to organise the return of the body - with the family facing a wait of at least a week before they can bring the teenager's remains home.It is understood some of the near £60,000 raised in a GoFundMe appeal could be used towards the repatriation costs if necessary.On Tuesday the Guardia Civil and Canary Islands Higher Court of Justice confirmed the body had injuries consistent with a fall on to rocky ground. Matthew Searle, chief executive of LBT Global, which has been helping the Slater family, told the BBC he understood the Spanish authorities had carried out all the examinations they needed to. He added he was confident that insurance should cover the cost of bringing Mr Slater's body home, but that there was the option of using crowdfunded donations if not.
LBT Global has been helping Mr Slater's family through the formal processes with the Spanish judicial system, which Mr Searle said could be "overwhelming" for grief-stricken relatives. He said: "There is so much to do, and obviously when you're in a foreign country, and you don't speak the language, and you've got no-one around you to help really, and you're in the position that Jay's parents are in...  it's just not the kind of thing that you cope with, it's just overwhelming."
Mr Searle also said the charity would try and make sure Mr Slater's family were on the same flight when he is repatriated. "It's always nice for them to say we have literally brought him home together," he added. Mr Slater's mother, Debbie Duncan, said her family's "hearts were broken" after her son's identity was confirmed.She added: "I just can’t believe this could happen to my beautiful boy."
Listen to the best of BBC Radio Lancashire on Sounds and follow BBC Lancashire on Facebook, X and Instagram. You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
