A Dodgeville woman will spend the next 19 months behind bars for her role in providing the heroin that caused the 2015 deaths of a Sauk County couple.
During a sentencing hearing Monday, Sauk County Circuit Court Judge Wendy Klicko sentenced 31-year-old Aimie E. Rice to two years of prison and six years of community supervision upon her release.
She was credited with 150 days of time already served while the case was pending. Rice will have to undergo treatment for substance abuse and abide by other conditions while under supervision of the Wisconsin Department of Corrections.
“This is not the end for you,” Klicko told Rice during the hearing. “I hope you realize that this is a beginning.”
Rice was charged with two counts of first-degree reckless homicide by delivering drugs related to the June 2015 overdose deaths of 55-year-old Richard Maurer and 51-year-old Diane Rogers. She pleaded no contest to one count, and the other was dismissed as part of a deal with prosecutors.
Prosecutors alleged that Rice and her then-boyfriend, who is the son of the woman who died, purchased the heroin from a dealer in the Madison area. They then resold it to Maurer and Rogers, who later were found dead of overdoses outside Maurer’s home in the town of Woodland, west of Reedsburg.
In July, Rodgers’ son, Herbert C. Grosenheider Jr., 31, of Dodgeville, pleaded guilty to two counts of reckless homicide by delivering drugs. He was sentenced to four years in prison for the role he played in the two overdose deaths.

        
    
During Monday’s hearing, Grosenheider’s sister, the daughter of Rogers, asked the judge to sentence Rice to the maximum possible sentence, which is 25 years behind bars and 15 years of supervised release.
“She has really disregarded my mother’s death as a whole,” said Cora Mae Hatfield, who also is a recovering heroin addict. She conceded that her mother made the decision to take the heroin that ultimately led to her death, but said she was disappointed that Rice had not accepted her share of the blame.
The sentence handed down by Klicko was jointly recommended by the prosecution and defense as part of Rice’s plea deal.
Rice declined an opportunity to make a statement before the judge, but her attorney spoke on her behalf, saying the sentence reflected her role in the deaths. He said his client was not entirely to blame.
“Personal accountability starts with the person using the drug,” said Madison attorney Mike Frank.
A report prepared by corrections workers about Rice’s life history prior to sentencing apparently included statements from members of Rogers’ family who called on the judge to impose the maximum sentence.
Frank took issue with those statements, saying the same family members have acknowledged that they also provided drugs to Rogers, and just as likely could have wound up in the defendant’s chair.
Sauk County District Attorney Kevin Calkins said Rice’s criminal history is primarily drug related. She and Grosenheider seemed to have dealt drugs only to fuel their own addictions. They would procure heroin from dealers, he said, then overcharge others for the drug “so they could afford their own fix.”
Calkins said Rice was reluctant to accept responsibility in the case, but also noted that she has struggled with addiction since age 11. He said Rice claims to have stopped using heroin, but appears to have begun using meth since her arrest in the reckless homicide case. He said the sentence addresses her treatment needs.
As part of her sentence, Rice also was ordered to pay more than $13,000 in restitution to both families.
