Celebrations for a town park reaching 100 begin Friday and include airborne pyrotechnics, musical acts and 1920s fairground rides.Warminster's Lake Pleasure grounds are a focal point for many events in the Wiltshire town and include a lake, splash pad, skate park, bandstand and cafe.The park was officially opened on 26 July 1924 by the the Marquis of Bath - owner of Longleat - and was constructed on land used as a rubbish tip.The town council has organised the free event, but it has had to be ticketed.
Music is regularly played at the bandstand still, Warminster Model Boat Club uses the lake, there are boats to hire out, a putting green and right next to it there is now a nature reserve.Over the years, there have been changes and additions to the grounds. There is now a Lakeside Centre, for example, for community groups and activities. Wiltshire Council's 'Explore Wiltshire' app describes it as "both a tranquil haven and a hive of activity."
After World War One, unemployment was a big issue and the park was one of the public works schemes designed to employ men out of work.It cost £8,000 with a loan from the Ministry of Works and money from the Unemployment Grants Committee.In 1923, the council bought the old tip off Weymouth Street for the transformation.The opening 100 years ago included sporting competitions, entertainment, a concert and firework display.
Val Bush now runs the cafe in the park and remembers it in the 1960s: "This has been the park to come to since the sixties."We had an outdoor swimming pool, we had slides and swings, but nothing like we've got now, it's amazing what we have now."The pool was where the remembrance garden is now...it was cold."Ms Bush said it is even better than it was and people come from miles to see it. "It's a good day out for the children. It's a really good asset to the town," she added. 
Since 2016, the park has been run by Warminster Town Council.Mayor Stacie Allensby told the BBC: "A lot of people really do respect the park."Despite popular large events there, she said: "Some people still don't know the park is here. It's well hidden but we're hoping to improve that with some decent signage."She explained it is taken care of by a "fantastic" grounds team.Groundsman Joe Reece said it was the "best park in Wiltshire".He explained not being able to see the road, so not hearing much traffic or other noise is a plus point."Everyone is so positive in this park. I don't get one complaint," Mr Reece added.
Since taking over running of the park from Wiltshire Council, Warminster Town Council has made changes, including building the space-themed splashpad and improving the tennis courts. The park has been recognised with a Green Flag award for well-managed parks and green spaces.As well as the centenary, other large events are held there, with the Ice Cream and Bubbles Festival due in August.
The biggest downside to the pleasure grounds seems to be the the birdlife - visitors can be a bit nervous of the geese."The Canadian geese are an acquired taste," said the mayor.Meanwhile, Mr Reece remembers the swans: "I don't mind the geese. It was the angry swans - we had Dangerous Doug. One that would jump out of the lake...well-known."
Follow BBC Wiltshire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
