In the days since an assailant 
broke into the home
 of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and attacked her husband with a hammer, internet users have amplified false claims that mock the victim and give credence to 
insidious conspiracy theories
 about the incident.
Baseless and homophobic claims suggesting a personal relationship betwee
n Paul
 Pelosi and the alleged assailant have been shared by prominent figures including elected officials, conservative pundits and Twitter’s new owner, 
Elon Musk
, who later deleted his post.
Authorities have stated that David DePape, 42, broke a glass door of the home early Friday morning and entered with a hammer, zip ties and other supplies, intending to kidnap the Democratic lawmaker. They said he struck Pelosi with a hammer after police arrived at the scene.
DePape, who is facing multiple charges including attempted murder, also appears to have written racist and often rambling posts online, including some that questioned the results of the 2020 election, defended former President Donald Trump and echoed QAnon conspiracy theories, as The Associated Press has 
reported
.
Here are the facts.
CLAIM: This was a “Domestic Violence Case in a consensual sexual relationship.”
THE FACTS:
 Zero evidence has been presented to support that claim, which contradicts what law enforcement officials have said and what court documents describe.
“We have nothing to suggest that these two men knew each other prior to this incident,” San Francisco’s district attorney, Brooke Jenkins, 
told reporters
 on Sunday. She said 
during a press conference
 Monday the attack appeared to be politically motivated.

        
    
Jenkins’ office in a court filing Tuesday detailed the contents of a 911 call Pelosi made early Friday, during which Pelosi confirmed that he did not know DePape. Overhearing the call, DePape said aloud that his name was David and he was a “friend,” the filing said. 
Likewise, an FBI agent’s affidavit reports that Pelosi in the 911 call 
“conveyed that he does not know who the male is”
 and later told a police officer in the ambulance that he had never seen DePape before.
DePape told police officers that he went to the home to take Nancy Pelosi hostage, according to the affidavit, and that he viewed her as a “‘leader of the pack’ of lies told by the Democratic Party.” 
The affidavit was submitted in support of 
federal charges
 of assault and attempted kidnapping.
CLAIM: DePape was in his underwear when police arrived at the house.
THE FACTS: The FBI in its affidavit describes the alleged attacker as wearing shorts with pockets.
“Officers removed a cell phone, cash, clipper cards, and an unidentified card from DEPAPE’s
right shorts pocket,” the affidavit reads.
A local news outlet reported the baseless claim that DePape was in his underwear, but it later 
corrected
 its story. 
Pelosi, meanwhile, was asleep in his bed on the second floor of the home when DePape entered and woke him up, according to officials. 
“Mr. Pelosi, who was sleeping, was wearing a loose fitting pajama shirt and boxer shorts,” Jenkins, the district attorney, 
said
 Monday.
CLAIM: Both DePape and Pelosi were holding hammers when authorities arrived.
THE FACTS: The two men were struggling over a single hammer, police confirmed.
The false notion that the men were each holding their own hammers erupted after San Francisco Police Chief William Scott 
said in a Friday news briefing
 that when officers arrived at the scene, they “observed Pelosi and the suspect both holding a hammer.”
But Scott later clarified his language, saying that police saw “Mr. Pelosi and Mr. DePape each with one hand on a single hammer. There was one hammer that the officer observed.”
Scott explained that police then told both men to drop the hammers, and DePape pulled the hammer away and struck Pelosi with it.
DePape’s account matches this description of events, according to his interview with authorities recorded in the FBI affidavit. The hammer belonged to DePape, the affidavit said.
The affidavit also states that law enforcement searched DePape’s home and found “two hammers, a sword, and a pair of rubber and cloth gloves.”
CLAIM: Photo shows DePape filming the Jan. 6 insurrection at the U.S. Capitol.
THE FACTS: That’s wrong. The 
photo
 in question, published by the AP, was not taken at the Capitol.
The image does show DePape holding a camcorder. But it was taken outside of San Francisco City Hall almost a decade ago.
AP photographer Eric Risberg captured the image on Dec. 19, 2013. According to the caption, the photo shows DePape recording the nude wedding of Gypsy Taub, a pro-nudity activist. At the time, Taub was marrying another man.
CLAIM: Two far-right websites attributed to DePape were created the day of the attack and deleted the next day, proving a left-wing attempt to “smear” him.
THE FACTS: The websites existed before the attack, and had entries dating back years, according to AP reporting. 
This claim reflects a misunderstanding of the Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine, an online tool that allows people to visit past versions of websites that users and internet bots have archived. The tool does not show when a website was created. 
After Pelosi was attacke
d, journalists researching the man identified as hi
s assailant 
wrote about web blogs
 that had been posted under the name David DePape in recent months. The blogs contained political rants and references to the QAnon conspiracy theory.
Social media users and conservative websites over the weekend questioned whether these blogs were real, claiming that the Wayback Machine only showed activity on the sites from the past two days. 
However, an AP reporter viewed entries on the sites that predated the attack, and the domain registration on one of the sites shows it was registered last month by a David DePape.
The Wayback Machine also does not include a full history of every website.
“Some sites may not be included because the automated crawlers were unaware of their existence at the time of the crawl,” reads an 
online information page
 about the tool. “It’s also possible that some sites were not archived because they were password protected, blocked by robots.txt, or otherwise inaccessible to our automated systems. Site owners might have also requested that their sites be excluded from the Wayback Machine.”
This story has been updated to add information from documents filed in court Tuesday.
Associated Press writer Michael Biesecker in Washington contributed to this report.
This is part of AP’s effort to address widely shared misinformation, including work with outside companies and organizations to add factual context to misleading content that is circulating online. 
Learn more about fact-checking at AP
.
