A federal judge has postponed sentencing for the friend who sat idle as Dylann Roof carried out the deadly attack on Emanuel AME Church, ruling Joey Meek deserves more time to respond to prosecutors’ efforts to land him a hefty prison sentence.
U.S. District Court Judge Richard Gergel made the ruling Tuesday, two days before the 22-year-old Lexington County man was to appear for a sentence hearing in Charleston.
On Monday, prosecutors signaled their intention to seek a harsher sentence for Meek and send a message about the seriousness of his inaction.
Gergel opted to give Meek more time to respond to the prosecution’s move, giving Meek’s attorney until March 10 to file a motion on his behalf. The sentencing hearing will take place sometime after that date, he ruled.
The prosecutors’ court filing struck a different tone from Joey Meek’s agreement to plead guilty to misprision of a felony and lying to federal agents after the June 2015 hate-motivated slayings in Charleston.
If he had contributed significantly to Roof’s prosecution, Meek’s deal would have called on the authorities to seek lesser prison time than normally prescribed by sentencing guidelines.
But Roof’s death penalty trial ended earlier this year without Meek taking the witness stand against the white supremacist who he spent time with in the weeks before the massacre. Roof, 22, was convicted of 33 federal counts and sentenced to die.

        
    
That prompted prosecutors to reverse course on Meek. Instead of seeking a prison term on the low end of the range allowed by law, they plan to ask Judge Richard Gergel for a penalty on the higher side. The 22-year-old Lexington County man could get up to eight years behind bars.
A lengthy prison term would amount to “just punishment” for Meek’s offense and promote “respect for the law,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Nathan Williams said in the motion. Some family members of the nine black worshippers killed in the shooting are expected to ask for substantial prison time, he added.
“The circumstances of this case are atypical and exceptional,” Williams wrote. “The guidelines fail to adequately account for the extraordinary loss to the families, church and community.”
When Meek pleaded guilty in April, the lawyer offered a public apology on his behalf and said Meek hoped his admissions would help the victims’ families move forward.
“He would like nothing more than their forgiveness,” Barbier said, “but he certainly does not expect their forgiveness.”
Meek and Roof were childhood friends who rekindled their relationship shortly before the killings. Roof visited Meek’s home in Lexington County and sometimes spoke of his views on white supremacy and a desire to carry out violence in Charleston.
The prosecutors in Monday’s filing said Roof discussed “specifics ... about his plan to attack the church in Charleston well in advance of June 17, 2015.”
That’s the day Roof, then 21, went to the Calhoun Street worship house, sat with parishioners for a Bible study and later started shooting until nine of them were dead. He fired
77 rounds in the church’s fellowship hall, peppering each of his victims with multiple hollow point rounds.
Recently unsealed court documents show that FBI agents confronted Meek in Columbia three days after the church massacre about false statements he had provided to investigators. Meek admitted he had lied to the FBI and that Roof had told him at least a week before the attack that Roof “was going to shoot people at the AME Church in Charleston, SC on a Wednesday night,” according to an FBI summary of the interview.
“Meek also admitted to obstructing justice after the shooting by telling others, on multiple occasions, to keep quiet and not tell law enforcement of his and their knowledge about the AME Church shooting,” the summary stated. “Specifically, Meek told others not to call law enforcement and tell them that Dylann Roof was the shooter.”
Meek told the FBI he knew Roof was the gunman as soon as he received a media alert about the church shooting on his digital tablet on the night of the massacre. He also recognized Roof in a surveillance photo from the church that was released to the media the following morning, the FBI summary stated.
Meek told the agents he was afraid at the time of being implicated in the deadly plot, and he didn’t want law enforcement to know he had prior knowledge of Roof’s intent to shoot people at Emanuel AME, the FBI summary stated.
Meek was not “legally required” to report Roof’s plans, federal prosecutors explained Monday, but not doing so deprived police of any chance to prevent the shooting and should be considered in his sentencing. Some of Meek’s relatives said he never believed Roof, but prosecutors said Meek took the threats of violence seriously enough to get a weapon to protect himself if Roof came back to his home.
