Another Labour councillor in Oxford has resigned from the party over Sir Keir Starmer's stance on the Gaza conflict. 
City councillor Ajaz Rehman said Labour's leadership not calling for a ceasefire was "beyond my comprehension" and made his position "untenable".
He is the 10th Labour councillor in Oxford to resign from the party over its position on the war.  
The BBC has contacted Labour. The party said previously a humanitarian pause was the best way to address the crisis.
Labour has been increasingly divided over the idea of calling for a ceasefire in Gaza.
Dozens of Labour MPs have called for it, with 19 members of the front bench publicly diverting from the party's official position. 
In October Oxford City Council lost its Labour majority as a result of Gaza-related resignations.
One of those to resign,  Shaista Aziz, said Mr Rehman was believed to be the 50th councillor in the country to leave the party over the issue. 
Sir Keir is attempting to put Labour's position to a vote on Wednesday in a bid to maintain party unity.
But he has previously argued that a ceasefire would not be appropriate because it would freeze the conflict and embolden Hamas.
Mr Rehman, cabinet member for inclusive communities at Oxford City Council, said the party "has a moral duty to call for an end to the killing in Gaza".
"It is beyond my comprehension as to why they've not done so," he said.
He condemned the Hamas attacks on 7 October, but said Israel "cannot punish a whole society for the ills of a few, no matter how grave the crimes".
"Hamas are not the Palestinian people and Palestinians are not Hamas," he said.
"I have spoken with many people in the Labour Party including those holding senior leadership positions.
"I have sadly been left to conclude that the Labour Party leadership does not view all life equally.
"It does not value the lives of Palestinian people, or Palestinian children by not calling for a ceasefire.
"My position now as a Labour councillor is untenable."
Mr Rehman added he would "serve members of Lye Walley ward and residents of Oxford as an independent councillor".
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk.
