Families of men who died when part of an oil rig capsized hope UK authorities can be persuaded to help open a fresh inquiry into the disaster. 
The Alexander Kielland's accommodation platform capsized in 1980, off Norway, killing 123 men.
Relatives, some from Cumbria, will meet in parliament in December and hope to help kick-start the inquiry process.
A Norwegian government inquiry, held before the rig was salvaged, blamed a crack in one of the bracings. 
The Kielland capsized and sank in stormy weather on 27 March 1980, in the Ecofisk oil field.
An original inquiry held behind closed doors a year later said the disaster, which saw 89 survive, was caused by a fatigue crack on a bracing holding one of the five legs supporting the so-called flotel.
Two years ago, the Norwegian government accepted there were flaws in that report, but there was no basis for a new inquiry.
Families said they had never been able to see the report and had many questions about what actually happened.
Colin Lamb, from Plumbland near Aspatria, west Cumbria, lost his father Colin in the disaster, and his body has never been found.
He was one of 34 British men living on the Kielland and working long, gruelling shifts to lift oil from the sea bed.
"We lost my dad in 1980 and I still dream about him, as if he's still here," he said.
He said the pain is worse because bereaved families have been left without answers.
"I only found out two months ago that my father's passport had been retrieved and kept in the Norwegian archives," he said. 
"We should have had that passport in 1983 when the Kielland was uplifted. We shouldn't be talking about this now, it should have been done back then in the 1980s."
Mr Lamb, along with other relatives, ultimately wants the Norwegian government to open a new inquiry. 
About 15 MPs with constituents affected by the disaster will meet families in parliament next month.
It has been organised by the Conservative MP for Workington, Mark Jenkinson. 
"Those families need answers. I think there's been some acknowledgement of failings in the process for those outside of Norway," he said.
"I'll do anything I can to help my constituents and others by raising awareness with other MPs to try and get those answers."
Alan Hunter, from Distington near Workington, whose father Keith was also killed, was one of several family members to travel to Norway in September for a conference on the disaster.
"We've been left in the dark for all these years and the British government have had nothing to do with it from day one," he said.
"It would be nice to get some answers, and put it all to bed."
A UK Foreign Office spokesperson said: "The British Embassy in Oslo has engaged with the Norwegian authorities on this issue. 
"Any further investigation into the incident is a matter for the Norwegian authorities."
The BBC has approached the Norwegian government for comment.
Follow BBC Cumbria on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk.
