People living in a rural district said they have been left stunned after six bus services were taken off the road.
The routes are used mainly by people in Uttlesford, Essex, but also travel into Hertfordshire and Suffolk.
The operator Central Connect said it first told the local council in September that it was struggling to run the six routes.
Essex County Council (ECC) has drafted in other firms to operate "temporary timetables" following the news.
The local authority said Central Connect's actions were "disappointing".
Some of the people using the routes - the 301, 316, 318, 319, 320 and the 321- are school children.
Oli Franklin-Wallis said he would not have moved house to Saffron Walden three weeks ago had he been told his local bus would be withdrawn.
"I am absolutely staggered that the bus company cannot make it a going concern," said Mr Franklin-Wallis, who relies on the bus for commuting.
"We are shell-shocked to be honest."
Linda Cooling lives in the village of Ugley and uses the 301 which runs between Saffron Walden and Bishop's Stortford in Hertfordshire.
She did not know the Central Connect bus was being cancelled until she was contacted by a BBC reporter.
"I think it would be a disaster for them to cut that one because there is no other transport," said Ms Cooling.
In a long statement, Central Connect said it changed ownership in September, and said the new owners' management carried out a review.
It was decided that the timetables for these routes - drawn up and funded by ECC - were "unachievable", mainly because of "increased traffic congestion" on local roads and subsequent delays.
It said it reported the concerns to ECC at the time but "received no engagement" and wrote in January warning the services could be withdrawn, having seen that ECC had not amended the bus timetables for 2024.
The spokesperson said it terminated its contract with the council on 12 February, informing them services would end on 14 April.
"We are extremely concerned that passengers will be left stranded," it added.
ECC said A2B Travel Group and Stephensons of Essex would run a temporary timetable on all the affected routes.
"These will target school and peak journeys which are the most used, "said an ECC spokesperson.
"We would like to apologise for the distress caused to residents by the disappointing actions of the bus operator."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
