Almost 15,000 people have signed a petition against the draining of two 19th Century ponds.
Structural issues with the dams at Cannop Ponds in Gloucestershire pose a flood risk to nearby properties.  
Forestry England is considering replacing the dams that feed the ponds or draining them to alleviate flood risks at times of extreme rainfall.
Campaigners have called for the dams to be repaired to preserve the current habitats.
The future of the area became uncertain after it was revealed in July the dams did not meet modern engineering standards.
Shaun Bick, founder of Save the Ponds campaign, has branded the option to drain the ponds and return the area to how it was 200 years ago - bringing back the ecology and wildlife from that time - as "disgusting behaviour". 
He said: "Rewilding can be a good thing in certain places but you already have those animals here. They're already here and they live here; by rewilding it you are going to take a lot of those animals away and replace their habitat which is disgusting behaviour."  
Mark Lewis, Treasurer of Yorkley Angling Club, urged Forestry England to look at repairing the ponds as opposed to draining them and "listen to the voice of the people". 
The authorities said the risk of an extreme rainfall event would mean there would only be a window of "between an hour-and-a-half and two hours" to evacuate neighbouring communities.
Campaigners said the ponds supported a unique eco-system and should be preserved because they were enjoyed by thousands of people.
They said they were also the final resting place of many departed loved ones whose ashes had been spread over the surface.
The ponds also had a positive impact on people's mental health and wellbeing, including anglers, birdwatchers, cyclists and walkers, campaigners say.
Flood risk analysis showed parts of Parkend Road in Whitecroft and Lydney would be affected in the event of extreme rainfall. 
Forestry England have urged campaigners to work with them as they may be options that suit everyone.  
Kevin Stannard, deputy surveyor for the Forest of Dean said: "There might a better option in the future than just two big lakes.
"We might have a whole series of smaller lakes or it might just go back to a straight watercourse with wetlands - we don't know.
"We still need to work through all those options and permutations." 
An interim decision will be made at the end of the year before a period of public consultation. 
Follow BBC West on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: bristol@bbc.co.uk 
