The outskirts of the Lake District National Park may seem far removed from Rugby League's best known names, like Wigan and St Helens. But the Cumbrian town of Millom is very much part of the sport's traditional North West heartland. 
It is home to the oldest amateur Rugby League club in the world, Millom, which will celebrate its 150th anniversary with special gala night on Saturday 27 January.
The gala had been due to take place on the club's exact anniversary in December, but was it postponed due to bad weather. 
However, the delay only served to heighten anticipation for the celebration in the close-knit community. 
Throughout its history, Millom Rugby League Football Club has served a vital role in the town, with generations of families involved in its running, including chairman Craig Evans.
"My family started in 1900. I've had a family member of every generation play," he said.
"There were local teams set up prior to 1873, and then the managing directors of the Ironworks and the Hodbarrow mining company came together, recognising the popularity of the sport, put something together to keep the young local lads interested and Millom Rugby was founded."
Edward Knowles was an early star, playing for Millom and England in the 1890s. 
Today, a black and white photograph of him hangs in pride of place on the wall of the clubhouse, along with the printed notes from the club's first meeting. 
The walls are covered with framed shirts and memorabilia, including a programme cover from one of Millom's most famous matches, a 33-points-to-10 defeat to mighty Hull FC in the Challenge Cup first round in 1980. 
Among the playing that day was Peter Date, who later served as chairman and continues to play an active role at the club. 
"That was a wonderful day at Hull, nine thousand people watching us," he said. 
"Here, everybody knows everybody. The crowd that we have are outstanding, magnificent. 
"After you've played down here, you've got friends for life and we sit and talk about old days."
Former player, Thomas Sibley, was part of the Millom team that beat Serbian side Red Star Belgrade in the Challenge Cup on a memorable day in January 2019.
"On a game day we get hundreds of people coming down watching. Everyone is talking about it. 
"Millom is a rugby league and a sport community, to be honest."
Visiting teams often have to travel long distances to get to Millom and at certain times of year they can face especially cold and windy conditions at the clubs exposed home ground.
But whatever the weather, teams continue to turn out from age groups, with the senior team currently playing in the National Conference League, the fourth tier of British Rugby League. 
The club continues to produce talented young players, including Jack Newbegin and Rio McQuistan, who have used it as a platform to move to teams in Australia.
"I wouldn't be doing what I'm doing now without the coaches or the players around this club," Jack said.
"It's one of the highest standards in amateur Rugby League."
For Rio, the challenge ahead presents an exciting challenge, tinged with sadness at leaving his home town.
"There's always such a buzz when the season is on," he said.
"Everyone loves their rugby in Millom, and I think everyone always will".
Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook, X, and Instagram? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
