Home Office Minister Robert Jenrick has promised to bring forward a "serious package of fundamental reforms" to reduce net migration numbers. 
He said there were "strong arguments" for introducing a cap on migration and restricting the number of dependents who can accompany migrants to the UK.
His comments came as he fielded questions from Tory MPs, frustrated at growing migration levels. 
Last week, figures revealed that in 2022 net migration hit a record high.
On Monday, Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said levels of net migration were "too high" and that the government needed to "do more", without giving details of what that might be.
He added that the government's decision earlier this year to restrict certain students from bringing dependents to the UK was "the single biggest measure to bring down legal migration that anyone has ever taken". 
Mr Jenrick - together with former Home Secretary Suella Braverman - has been calling for tougher measures to curb legal migration.
Answering an urgent Commons question, he went further than Mr Sunak in setting out what the government is considering, saying "substantive measures" would be announced "as soon as possible".
Asked if these plans would be announced before Christmas, Mr Jenrick said: "My plan would have been brought to the House [of Commons] before last Christmas if I could have done, but let's hope we can bring forward a substantive package of reforms very quickly."
He said that reducing net migration would mean "taking difficult choices" adding: "The public are sick of talk - they want action."
Labour's shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said Mr Jenrick would be "furious when he discovers who's been in charge of the immigration system for the last 13 years". 
Right-wing Conservative MPs lined up to urge Mr Jenrick to push Mr Sunak to take action.
Sir Edward Leigh said immigration levels had grown in part due to care worker visas being handed out "like sweeties". 
He accused the care home sector of paying "starvation wages of £20,000-a -year" to foreign workers and called for the salary threshold for workers coming to the UK to be raised.
Speaking of the immigration minister, Sir Edward said: "We know he is on the right side - he's just got to persuade the prime minister now."
Another Conservative MP, Jonathan Gullis, said Mr Jenrick had his "full support" and added that he was "deeply concerned and confused" by Mr Sunak's approach. 
Sir John Hayes argued for further restrictions on the number of dependents allowed to accompany migrants working in the UK. Sir John said: "We are relying on [Mr Jenrick] because we know he shares our concerns."
Deputy Conservative chairman Lee Anderson and MP Marco Longhi both called for a cap on net migration, with Mr Anderson saying his constituents had "had enough". 
Mr Jenrick expressed sympathy for the ideas saying there were "strong arguments" for a cap on migration numbers "whether in general or in specific visas".
"But these are conversations that we need to conclude within government," he added.
On salary thresholds for care workers, he said the government needed to "take a more sensible, sustainable attitude to how we pay and look after people in such an important career".
And responding to questions about dependents, he said: "There is a strong argument for saying that it is unsustainable for the country to continue to take so many dependents who, in turn, put pressure on housing, public services, school places and so on.
"With respect to care workers, we have seen a very substantial number of visas issued and an almost one-for-one in terms of those care workers bringing dependents with them. And that is something ... we're actively considering." 
Many of the ideas suggested by Conservative MPs echoed proposals Mr Jenrick has already drawn up - but which have not yet been adopted as government policy. 
Responding to the debate in Parliament, a No 10 spokesman said: "We always welcome contributions from MPs on this important debate. We are listening carefully to what they have got to say.
During the question session, Yvette Cooper said: "Net migration should come down. Immigration is important for Britain and always will be, but the system needs to be properly controlled and managed so it's fair and effective and is properly linked to the economy."
She urged the government to ensure salary thresholds for migrant workers would be reviewed.
The SNP's Alison Thewliss said migrants made "our society and economy all the richer". 
She asked the government if they had "thought this through - who is going to carry out the vital tasks of those who come to our shores as they raised the drawbridge and send people away. 
"Pressures on services are helped by people coming here, not hindered." 
