State Circuit Judge Mark Barnett sent three people straight to jail last week after sentencing them for drugs or DUIs in court in Pierre. That’s a swifter brand of justice than has been seen lately that has raised some eyebrows among attorneys, defendants and court watchers.
Barnett, nearing retirement after a long career as prosecutor at the county level as well as being state attorney general for a time, began a new cycle in January on the bench for state felony court in Pierre. He’s got a different approach than Judge John Brown, who is the presiding judge in the 14-county Sixth Circuit.
It’s been common the past two or three years for defendants sentenced to jail to at times be allowed to report to jail later that day or another day. Court watchers say judges can vary on such measures.
Barnett explained on Tuesday he was changing the policy as he “remanded” several right to jail, including being handcuffed in court, something they seemed not to be expecting when they came to court.
Vilas Fallis Jr. 25, appeared with his attorney, Tara Adamski, on Tuesday to be sentenced after pleading guilty in December to ingesting methamphetamine and the neglect/abuse of his daughter,6. His daughter kept calling 911 on Oct. 1 and hanging up, while Fallis was sleeping off a night of partying when he was the only adult in the home..
Police arrived and Fallis scuffled with them as they forced their way in.

        
    
Hughes County State’s Attorney Roxanne Hammond, with the recommendation of court services officials who did a pre-sentence report, recommended probation, although she said Fallis’s lack of remorse and his tendency to minimize his crimes concerned her.
Barnett flipped throught Fallis’ criminal record: “20 prior arrests,” he told Fallis, listing DUIs, pot, petty theft, a simple assault, going back several years.
Adamski told Barnett that Fallis had been “a model client,” keeping in contact with her and seeming to be serious about changing his life around.
“He’s does have family support,” Adamski said, indicating several people in the gallery.. “They are here today.” .
But Barnett told Fallis his criminal record seemed to be a pattern: “four, five, ,six, violations a year. It’s a lot of nickel and dime stuff that starts to snowball on you. . . . 21 guilty pleas. Does that sound about right?”
“Yes, your honor, that’s about right.”
Barnett sentenced Fallis to two years of supervised probation. Plus: “You owe me 10 days in jail.”
Barnett told Fallis if he completes his first year of probation successfully, he will get a suspended imposition of sentence, which would take the felony conviction off his record.
“But now, you gotta do the 10.”
His attorney, Adamski, told Barnett that Fallis had just had a tooth pulled and have not filled his prescription for painkillers yet.
“He’s got his mom or dad here, they can go get his meds for him,” Barnett said.
Fallis asked Adamski to ask Barnett: Could he serve his 10 days in jail on weekends?
No, Barnett.
Fallis communicated that he wasn’t expecting that and wasn’t pleased.
“You got a problem with that, sir?” Barnett said.
No, Fallis said, shrugging.
Barnett told a sheriff’s deputy to handcuff Fallis and have him wait in the jury box until the other hearings were completed.
Next up was Monte Melvin, a prominent horseman, rancher and former rodeo cowboy, from Hermosa. He had pleaded guilty Dec. 15 for a “third DUI,” offense within 10 years, that carries a maximum sentence of two years in prison.
His blood alcohol level was 0.217 when he was stopped in Pierre on June 7 after being at dinner with old friends.
Melvin was represented by a relative, Stanley County State’s Attorney Tom Maher.
Barnett referred to the connection. “This is a cousin of yours, Mr. Maher?”
“Monte is my cousin,” Maher said. “Some 30 years ago I worked for him at the track.”
Barnett said it appeared Melvin had a long history of driving drunk, including seven arrests; two of them from two decades or more ago were “knocked down” to reckless driving. But aside from one day in jail, Melvin had not spent any time in jail for a DUI, Barnett said.
Melvin, 65, told Barnett he had learned through counseling that he has been depressed for years and was learning how to cope.
“You are going to get some jail time,” Barnett told him, citing Melvin’s long history of driving drunk. “I would much rather have you do some days in jail and not kill anyone.”
Hammond said Melvin’s DUI history, and his 0.217 BAC concerned her. She asked Barnett to sentence Melvin to two years of supervised probation.. “And if jail time, we would request 30 days,” Hammond said.
Barnett imposed that sentence.
Maher asked Barnett if he could discuss having Melvin report at a later date to start serving his 30 days in jail.
“No. . . standard remand,” Barnett said, meaning Melvin was going straight to a jail cell from his hearing.
Cynthia Williams of Pierre came next before Barnett for sentencing, also on a “DUI third offense,” meaning prosecutors say she had two previous DUI convictions within 10 years of this one.
Her blood alcohol level was 0.237 when she was stopped last summer, Hammond told Barnett. She recommended two years of supervised probation including treatment for her alcohol problem, Hammon said.
Williams’ attorney, Tara Adamski, told Barnett that Williams had recently obtained a new job, after losing one due to her DUI arrest last year. If she couldn’t keep working in the next week or so, Williams would lose her opportunity to become eligible for health benefits at her new job, Adamski said.
Barnett said Williams also had a fourth DUI more than 10 years ago.
That history meant he wanted to see Williams serve some time, Barnett told her.
“You owe me 10 days in the county jail,” he said.
Again, it was to begin that day. And he was sorry about how that might affect her employment, Barnett said.
Sensing his practice of “remanding” defendants to custody immediately after sentencing was surprising people, Barnett took a minute midway through the three sentencing to explain he wanted to treat everyone the same.
“Years ago the judges all agreed we would remand at sentencing,” he said. “Since then we have drifted and I’m trying to bring us back to a consistent policy, so we are the same and we’re not picking and choosing.”
