More than 70 properties in Lincolnshire have been flooded due to Storm Henk, the fire and rescue service has said. 
Flooding has also hit gardens, sheds and outbuildings at a further 84 properties, mainly in the area between Bourne and Sleaford.
The Environment Agency confirmed flooding was expected in 31 areas of Lincolnshire on Wednesday.
Almost a month's worth of rainfall was believed to have fallen in the county over the past three days.
The main risk in the days ahead would be surface water running from roads and fields, police warned.
Other areas of the county severely affected by flooding included the Deepings, Shillingthorpe and Ruskington.
Nine families had left their homes after the village of Greatford experienced a "significant amount of flooding", according to Mark Baxter, chief fire officer for Lincolnshire Fire and Rescue.
Mr Baxter said: "Although the amount of rainfall has been diminishing, we are still seeing properties reporting flooding.
"We do anticipate there will unfortunately be some further flooding over the coming days and definitely there will be more reporting of floodings."
One resident told the BBC the water levels were "chest deep", but Mr Baxter said on Wednesday afternoon no evacuations were planned "at this moment in time".
David and Phoenix Graham, in Ruskington, said they had been left "psychologically destroyed" after their home was flooded for the second time in just a few months.
They said they were already living in a caravan when their house flooded again on Tuesday night. 
Mr Graham said the most recent flooding started after the drains in the road "popped" and effluent started streaming into their house. 
He told the BBC he believed the reason for the flooding was because nearby waterways were "never dredged".
"All the waterway system hasn't been looked after for years," Mr Graham said.
There needed to be a "massive redirection of water", he added.
Meanwhile, Mrs Graham said the flooding had devalued their house and it had "taken away the choice to move away".
"It's guaranteed to happen again," she said.
Meanwhile, in Baston, in South Kesteven, Waterside Garden Centre was forced to close. 
Images showed the shop's car park completed surrounded by flood water. 
On its Facebook page, the garden centre said it would update customers when it was able to reopen. 
Lincolnshire Police said its officers were working with the county's Local Resilience Forum to monitor water levels and potential risk.
Particular attention was being paid to South Forty Foot Drain, Branston Delph, Bourne Eau and Greatford, a force spokesperson said.
They added: "People are still advised to remain vigilant and be aware of what actions to take to protect their home and properties against flooding.
"Plans are being put in place to help minimise any potential further impact."
By Paul Hudson, BBC Yorkshire climate correspondent
Cranwell has seen 44.8mm (1.8in) of rain in the three days from Sunday to Wednesday. The January average there for the whole month is 48.1mm.
Elsewhere, Holbeach (38.4mm) and Hull East Park (36.2mm) have experienced well over half of their average January rainfall of 50.8mm and 54.3mm respectively.
All this comes off the back of one of the wettest autumns and Decembers on record.
Lincolnshire Fire and Rescue Service said it had dealt with 140 flooding-related calls in the last 24 hours.
Mr Baxter, who is also the chair of Lincolnshire's Local Resilience Forum, said the service was "constantly monitoring the situation and supporting communities". 
He also called on local residents to "respect" the 28 road closures put in place in the county to "manage the safety of people" due to the amount of surface water on the roads. 
National Highways advised drivers to allow extra time for journeys and to plan ahead.
The northbound carriageway of the A1 in Lincolnshire was closed between the A52 at Grantham and the B6326 near Newark on Tuesday morning due to standing water.
Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
