BOSTON (AP) — Chris Tillman knew he wouldn’t have much room for error against one of the American League’s best lineups.
He not only didn’t make many mistakes, but turned in perhaps his best in what was already an impressive string of starts.
Manny Machado hit a two-run home run, Tillman struck out seven in seven innings and the Baltimore Orioles snapped a three-game losing streak with a 3-2 victory over the Boston Red Sox on Tuesday night.
Tillman (9-1) is 8-0 in his last 10 starts, the longest streak by an Orioles pitcher since Erik Bedard won nine straight decisions in 2007.
Despite the Orioles’ recent pitching struggles, he said he’s not trying to do anything special on the mound.
“I don’t put any more added pressure on myself than need be,” Tillman said. “I just think just keeping the same game plan, going out and making pitches. And quality pitches, to get to result that you need.”
Jonathan Schoop added a solo homer in the eighth inning for the Orioles.
The teams entered the three-game series tied atop the American League East. Baltimore has won five of the eight meetings with Boston this season.
Tillman kept the Red Sox off balance with an assortment of fastballs, sliders and curves. His lone mistake was a home run in the seventh to Jackie Bradley, Jr.
Baltimore’s bullpen gave one run back in the eighth, but Zach Britton was able close things out to earn his 20th save in 20 tries.

        
    
David Price (7-4) took the loss, despite finishing with 11 strikeouts in eight innings and retiring 19 straight at one point. It was the third time this season Price has allowed two home runs.
Baltimore jumped on Price in its first at-bat. After Joey Rickard got aboard with a single, Machado drove a first-pitch fastball over the fence in right field to put the Orioles up 2-0.
Price settled after that, retiring the 19 straight until Mark Trumbo broke the Orioles’ drought with a single in the seventh.
“As the game goes on, I definitely want to get better and for the most part I did that, but one pitch in this game can lose it for you,” Price said.
As good as Price was early Tillman was even better, holding the Red Sox to three hits through six innings.
Boston’s hitters did manage to force some long pitch counts, though. Tillman’s previous high for pitches this season was 110. He threw 120 pitches Tuesday. His 111th pitch of the night — a slider just over the plate — was exposed just enough for Bradley to drive it over the center field fence to pull Boston within a run.
Ubaldo Jimenez’s ongoing struggles have earned him a demotion to the bullpen. Orioles manager Buck Showalter said Jimenez’s assignment would likely begin Wednesday. He entered Tuesday 3-7 with a 6.89 ERA in 13 starts this season.
“Ubaldo knows,” Showalter said. “I think we had to do it one other time and he responded well. It’s tough for a guy who might have been our best starting pitcher last year. But it just kind of reached the point where we kept waiting and waiting for him to find his stride.”
Red Sox: Manager John Farrell said OF/C Blake Swihart (sprained left ankle) has come out of a hard cast, but is in a boot that still has him immobilized. ... C Ryan Hanigan (neck strain) has range of motion freely from the left side of the neck that has been restricting him. Farrell said Hanigan will soon begin light baseball activity, it is to be determined whether he will return at the end of his current 15-day DL stint. ... Brock Holt (mild concussion) continues to do baseball activities but is still experiencing some dizziness, general fogginess and headaches.
Orioles: Showalter said RHP Yovani Gallardo (right shoulder bicep tendinitis) had a good final rehab start with Triple-A Norfolk and is expected to pitch Saturday against Toronto. ... C Caleb Joseph is in Double-A Bowie taking batting practice and throwing, but won’t but fully cleared to catch until at least June 27 should everything go as scheduled, Showalter said. ... RHP Vance Worley (right groin strain) was placed on the 15-day DL on Tuesday, retroactive to June 13.
Orioles: RHP Kevin Gausman (0-3, 3.45) makes his 11th start of the season and is still in search of his first win this season. Gausman has not won since beating Toronto on Sept. 30, 2015.
Red Sox: RHP Steven Wright (7-4, 2.09) tries to extend his career-best winning streak to five straight games. Wright hasn’t allowed an earned in his last 16 1/3 innings pitched.
Follow Kyle Hightower on Twitter at 
http://www.twitter.com
 /khightower
