A martial arts champion known as "The Polish Bear" has been jailed.
Przemyslaw Mysiala, 41, from Maidenhead, Berkshire, was found guilty in January of supplying cocaine and possessing criminal property.
Police stopped Mysiala's car on the A11 near Attleborough, Norfolk, on 8 December 2021 and found £72,000 in cash on the back seat.
Recorder Ruth Brander sentenced him to seven years in prison at Norwich Crown Court. 
Mysiala was ranked fourth in the UK for professional light heavyweights and has won 24 out of 37 fights in his career.
Prosecutor Isobel Ascherson said evidence put to the jury stated the journey was his fourth trip to Norwich, in which he dropped off two blocks of cocaine that weighed just under 2kg (4.4lbs). 
After hearing four days of evidence, the jury took three hours and four minutes to convict Mysiala. He was remanded into custody.
Ms Ascherson said the level of involvement - and with links to the supplier in Eastern Europe - meant Mysiala played a significant role in the operation, with potentially more than 5kg (11lbs) being supplied over the four trips.
Sentencing guidelines for supplying 5kg of cocaine, Ms Ascherson said, would warrant a sentence of 10 to 12 years and that supplying 1kg would attract eight years in custody.
Defence barrister Tony Montgomery said the jury convicted on evidence relating to the fourth trip only and that it was not possible for the court to base sentencing on a larger amount.
He also said that despite the quantity of cash, Mysiala's payment was relatively small. He said that sentencing guidelines were based on higher rewards, claiming there was no evidence of large quantities of cash in Mysiala's bank accounts.
Mr Montgomery said Mysiala was a hard worker, a man of previous good character who was devoted to his family.
"He will be missed not only for company, but he was the breadwinner," he added.
"He was central to the family from an economic viewpoint. The impact of this will be the kiss of death to his career although he might be able to get work as a trainer, he won't be able to cash in on his celebrity."
Recorder Brander said she could only pass sentence based on the 2kg Mysiala was found to have carried.
But she told Mysiala, who admitted in his trial to being addicted to amphetamines, that he should have known the harm drugs can cause.
She ordered him to serve seven years for supplying cocaine, and one year for possession of criminal property. The sentences will run concurrently.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
