A 22-year-old is urging young people to look out for warning signs of cancer, after thinking his own symptoms were caused by job stress. 
Keeslee Lanfear, from Gloucestershire, was diagnosed with stage 4 Hodgkin lymphoma at the age of 21. 
He initially thought his weight loss and itchy legs were caused by his work as a wedding planner.
Mr Lanfear, who is now in remission, said he was "shocked" when he got his diagnosis.
He said: "I didn't know any young people who had had cancer. I put losing weight down to my stressful role.
"I didn't have much of a work/life balance. I also thought my legs were itchy because I was standing up a lot at work."
His message comes as the Teenage Cancer Trust (TCT) releases research which it says shows just 17% of 13-24-year-olds know the five main warning signs of cancer in young people. 
"These symptoms don't necessarily mean that you have cancer, but it is really important to get checked out if you notice these changes in your body - especially if they last for a while and you can't explain them," Dr Louise Soanes, TCT chief nurse said.
Mr Lanfear was diagnosed with stage 4 Hodgkin lymphoma in May 2023 after taking the first step of visiting his GP.
When his stomach pain got worse over the course of a week, he made a list of his symptoms and took them to his doctor in March 2023.  
While awaiting test results from his GP, he noticed he had a lump in his neck, the size of a golf ball. 
He had an X-ray over concerns he could have a collapsed lung, and then a CT on his chest to check for blood clots. 
"I went back to the hospital the next morning and it was confirmed that it was lymphoma. We asked what it was and that's when they told me I had cancer," Mr Lanfear said.
He continued: "It was a surreal moment. My mum asked if it was curable, and they said there's a high chance with chemotherapy.
"Every day I woke up and thought 'is this really happening?'. 
"I got upset when I first told people, but after a week I was emotionless when I was telling people. It wasn't until I went in to have my first chemotherapy session that it really hit me again."   
Mr Lanfear, who is from the Forest of Dean, started chemotherapy in June and was treated on the TCT unit at the University Hospital of Wales in Cardiff. 
"I was bullied growing up for being gay and I always felt different." he said.  
"When I found out that I'd need to stay on the hospital unit, I was initially worried about whether me being gay was an issue. But I was wrong and I was accepted.   
"The unit was incredible. It doesn't feel like a hospital," Mr Lanfear said.
He had four cycles of chemotherapy and is now in remission after finishing his treatment in August.
He said: "I started making TikTok videos about my experience and I got such a positive response that when I was feeling down, I'd make a video.
"Interacting with people who commented on the videos gave me a boost and it helped me to keep going. I've made many friends online who have been through similar experiences.   
"You can't choose what life throws at you, but you can choose how you are going to deal with it." 
Follow BBC West on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: bristol@bbc.co.uk 
