A plane crash that killed 72 people including a talented ballet dancer was caused by a pilot accidentally pulling the wrong levers, an inquest has heard.
Ruan Crighton, from Brentwood, Essex, was on board the plane when it crashed into a gorge in Nepal in 2023.
Witnesses had seen the ATR-72 aircraft "banking sharply" before "sinking rapidly" towards the ground.
North London area coroner Tony Murphy concluded Mr Crighton, 34, died "as a consequence of an aircraft accident".
The twin-engine propeller aircraft was travelling from Kathmandu to Pokhara International Airport in the Himalayan foothills when it crashed about a mile from the runway on 15 January 2023.
One of the pilots had mistakenly changed the propeller angle instead of the wing flaps, HM Coroner's Court for North London heard.
Feathering - the technical term for turning the angle of the propeller blades parallel - was normally only done in an emergency when an engine has failed, and would have resulted in the plane having no thrust, an expert told the inquest.
Physiotherapy student Mr Crighton - who toured Europe as a professional ballet dancer - had been living in Nepal with his French girlfriend while completing a placement at a spinal injury clinic in Kathmandu, the court heard.
The day after his birthday, the "adored" dancer was taking a "well-earned trip into the mountains" when the tragedy occurred.
The plane was carrying 68 passengers, including 15 foreign nationals, and four crew members.
In a pen portrait read to the inquest, Mr Crighton's family said he would be "missed beyond words".
"We are all beyond heartbroken by this terrible tragedy. We are so proud of what he achieved," they said.
"He was witty, charming, quick and so generous. He was adored by all who met him.
"We couldn't wait to see him and learn all about his latest adventures."
The Yeti Airlines aircraft had been operating shuttle flights and was on its third trip of the day when the tragedy occurred, the inquest heard.
The pilots "sustained a loss of control" and eyewitnesses at Pokhara International Airport noticed it was flying at a low altitude before it fell from the sky.
Mr Crighton suffered fatal blunt force injuries during the crash, Mr Murphy said.
"He was an exceptional person and is much missed by his family and friends," he added.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
