BOSTON (AP) — The Latest on the sentencing of actress Felicity Huffman in the nationwide college admissions bribery scam (all times local):
4:05 p.m.
“Desperate Housewives” star Felicity Huffman says she takes full responsibility for her role in the college admissions scandal and deserves her punishment.
A federal judge in Boston sentenced the actress on Friday to 14 days in prison, a $30,000 fine, 250 hours of community service and a year’s probation.
Huffman was stoic in court, telling U.S. District Judge Indira Talwani she “betrayed” her daughters and her actor husband, William H. Macy.
After her sentencing, she said via email: “I accept the court’s decision today without reservation.”
Huffman’s lawyer, Martin Murphy, argued that her crimes were less serious than those of her co-defendants. Huffman pleaded guilty in May to paying an admissions consultant $15,000 to have a proctor correct her daughter’s SAT exam answers in 2017.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Eric Rosen had pushed hard for a full month’s imprisonment. Rosen says there was “simply no excuse” for Huffman’s actions.
3:40 p.m.
Actress Felicity Huffman has been sentenced to 14 days in prison for her role in 
the sweeping college admissions scandal
 .
The “Desperate Housewives” star was sentenced in Boston’s federal court Friday after pleading guilty in May to a single count of conspiracy and fraud.
She was also given a $30,000 fine, 250 hours of community service and a year of supervised release.

        
    
She has admitted to paying an admissions consultant $15,000 to have a proctor correct her daughter’s SAT exam answers in 2017.
Prosecutors had recommended a month in prison and a $20,000 fine. Huffman’s lawyers said she should get a year of probation, 250 hours of community service and a $20,000 fine.
Huffman said before sentencing that “I am deeply ashamed of what I have done. I have inflicted more damage than I could ever imagine.”
She’s the first parent to be sentenced among 34 charged in the scheme.
1:45 p.m.
“Desperate Housewives” actress Felicity Huffman has arrived at Boston’s federal court to learn her fate in the college admissions scandal.
The star held hands with her husband, actor William H. Macy, as Huffman’s brother followed the couple into the courthouse.
Huffman didn’t speak to reporters on her way in. Macy has not been charged in the scheme.
Huffman is being sentenced Friday afternoon after admitting to paying $15,000 to rig her daughter’s SAT scores in 2017.
Prosecutors are asking for a month in prison, while her lawyers recommend a year of probation.
11:45 a.m.
A federal judge says the size of the bribes paid by parents in a college admissions scam will not influence the severity of their punishments.
U.S. District Judge Indira Talwani issued the decision Friday only hours before actress Felicity Huffman was scheduled to be sentenced for her role in the scheme.
The decision settles a dispute about how sentences should be calculated. Prosecutors argued that bribe amounts should be a factor, while the court’s probation office says it’s not appropriate in this case.
Huffman has admitted to paying $15,000 to rig her daughter’s SAT scores in 2017. Prosecutors are asking for a month in prison, while her lawyers recommend a year of probation.
Others scheduled to be sentenced in coming weeks pleaded guilty to paying bribes as high as $400,000.
10:30 a.m.
Actress Felicity Huffman is returning to court to be sentenced for her role in a sweeping college admissions bribery scandal.
The “Desperate Housewives” star is scheduled to appear in Boston’s federal court Friday after pleading guilty to a single count of conspiracy and fraud in May.
She has admitted to paying an admissions consultant $15,000 to have a proctor correct her daughter’s SAT exam answers in 2017.
Prosecutors are recommending a month in prison and a $20,000 fine. Huffman’s lawyers say she should get a year of probation, 250 hours of community service and a $20,000 fine.
Huffman says she has “a deep and abiding shame” for her actions but was only trying to be a good parent. She’s the first parent to be sentenced among 34 charged in the scheme.
