There have been calls for resignations, apologies, and figures behind the finances over ongoing issues with a new community hub. About 150 people attended a requisition meeting to question the parish commissioners about the Braddan Roundhouse.It came after the local authority announced the island's biggest hike in annual rates last month to offset the project's rising costs.Commissioners Chairman Andrew Jessopp said: "We never set out to burden the ratepayer."Resident Richard MacNee, who called the meeting, said the rate rises were "another nail in the coffin" for people struggling with the rising cost of living.Anger and frustration was expressed from audience members, who probed the board on a number of aspects of the project.Proper access to the centre has yet to be approved after the Department of Health and Social Care revoked the use of Noble's Hospital roads, due to patient health and safety concerns. 
Mr MacNee said he was disappointed in the attitude of some of the commissioners and was one of a number in the audience calling for an apology to residents. He said: "I hope they get the access issue sorted so that they can at least start making the place pay for itself."While he admitted it was "a lovely building", he called it a "white elephant", adding that Braddan residents "just don't need it".Braddan resident Kerry Kemp said the board should have never moved forward with the plans when costs began to soar. The scheme started at an initial £6m, with total costs to date surpassing £10m.
Mr Kemp said: "You should never ever have progressed this, one spade in the ground, when the costs were going through the roof. It should've been stopped".One resident called for "an election in the next few months so we have a fresh pair of eyes on this complete mess".Another said the situation was "quite avoidable" and said the commissioners had "got this one very wrong".Commissioners Chairman Andrew Jessopp said: "We never set out to burden the ratepayer.""Yes we are sorry that we're facing the difficulties that we are now... we are doing whatever we can now to try and rectify it."
One of the constituency's two MHKs attended the meeting, Jane Poole-Wilson, who stood and addressed the crowd. She said she "empathised" with residents and businesses affected by the delays, adding that many of the points raised had "highlighted some of the complexities around this". Regarding road access, she said: "The relevant government departments continue to meet and the intention is now to try and resolve these things as sensibly as possible".
Why not follow BBC Isle of Man on Facebook and X? You can also send story ideas to IsleofMan@bbc.co.uk
