A new documentary on how police investigate misconduct allegations will "improve trust and confidence", a police chief has said 
The Channel 4 series, To Catch A Copper, goes behind-the-scenes at Avon and Somerset Police as it looks into cases against its own officers.
The episodes will focus on mental health, sexual misconduct and race.
Chief Constable Sarah Crew said misconduct has been under "intense publicity and scrutiny" over the years.
The force invited production company Story Films to start filming with its professional standards department (PSD), including its counter-corruption unit, in 2019.
It comes after the Metropolitan Police was rocked by several high-profile scandals in recent years, including the murder of Sarah Everard by serving Met officer Wayne Couzens and the unmasking of former constable David Carrick as a serial abuser and rapist.
"It's abundantly clear the public's confidence in policing has been critically dented. Urgent recovery work must be undertaken to restore this precious bond we have with our communities," Ms Crew said.
"We knew that taking part in this documentary would be a controversial decision.
"Public institutions can be reluctant to open themselves up to this level of scrutiny, but people will see that we're facing into the issues, however uncomfortable, which I hope will help to improve trust and confidence in our ability to police by consent.
"I want people to see that we understand their concerns and we're taking robust action to tackle all forms of misconduct, rooting out those who have no place in this profession and making sure they can never serve again."
She said the documentary series will show the "challenges and complexities of the misconduct regime", which she said is undergoing "further significant change" after public concern.
Ms Crew also apologised for the "harm and distress" the cases featured have caused.
"Everyone has a role to play in creating a culture of upstanding and not bystanding, a culture which calls out misconduct for what it is."
The series, To Catch A Copper, will air on Monday nights from 29 January.
Follow BBC West on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: bristol@bbc.co.uk 
