BUCHAREST, Romania (AP) — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz travelled to Romania’s capital on Monday for trilateral talks with the presidents of Romania and Moldova, as the three nations look to boost ties amid 
Russia’s ongoing war in Ukraine
 and to mull ways of supporting embattled Moldova.
The German leader first met with Romanian President Klaus Iohannis at Cotroceni Palace in Bucharest, for bilateral talks that focussed on security, economy, and energy. They also discussed defense cooperation on NATO’s eastern flank and security in the Black Sea region.
Iohannis told a news conference after the talks that the Black Sea region’s strategic importance has been growing and called on NATO to “significantly strengthen” its defense and deterrence posture there.
For his part, Scholtz highlighted the strong relations between his country and Romania and reiterated an oft-repeated pledge to “give Ukraine military support for as long as it is necessary, and we are working on that constantly and together.”
Scholtz didn’t directly answer questions about the possibility of a maintenance facility being set up in Romania for German military equipment sent to Ukraine, to reflect similar efforts in other countries. 
A spokesperson for the German defense company Rheinmetall, told German news agency dpa Monday that it’s setting up a maintenance and logistics center in Satu Mare, north Romania, for Western military vehicles and howitzers delivered to Ukraine that will start work this month.

        
    
The two leaders also agreed on the importance of European Union expansion and that the Western Balkans “remain a key priority” to one day join the 27-nation bloc, Iohannis said. “We also share a common vision regarding the strategic values of the expansion of the (EU) to the East,” he said. 
Iohannis and Scholz were later joined by Moldovan President Maia Sandu for talks on ways to support her country, which has faced a string of crises over the past year, including alleged destabilization attempts by Moscow. Non-NATO Moldova was granted EU candidate status last June, the same day as war-torn Ukraine. 
Sandu told a news conference after talks that Moldova is Ukraine’s “most vulnerable neighbor,” adding that “when our values are under attack, democratic countries must help each other.”
“Some wanted Moldova to fall … (but) Moldova stands tall,” she said. “We got rid of Russian blackmail regarding gas, we helped people pay their bills, and most importantly, we stood by European values. Moldova showed the whole world that we are a European country.”
Scholz told reporters that Moldova is “part of the European family” and expressed concern over reports that Russia is trying to destabilize Moldova.
“The sovereignty and territorial integrity of any state is inviolable,” Scholz said. “That is why we are doing all we can to support Moldova in guarding against attempts to destabilize it by Russia.”
Last month, Moldovan police said they 
foiled a plot by groups
 of Russia-backed saboteurs who were specially trained to cause mass unrest against the country’s pro-Western government. That came days after U.S. intelligence officials said people with ties to Russian intelligence aimed to use the protests as a basis to try to topple Moldova’s government.
Romania’s Iohannis said “Moldova is not alone,” noting that Monday’s trilateral meeting “clearly demonstrates this fact.”
Stephen McGrath reported from Sighisoara, Romania; Geir Moulson and Kirsten Grieshaber contributed from Berlin. 
