Robbie Williams has sent words of encouragement to an artist, revealing that he was "truly broken" when he performed a series of concerts at Knebworth in 2003.On Monday, painter Sarah Graham from Hitchin, Hertfordshire, was "on the verge of tears" when she saw the pop star she had admired since she was a teenager had shared her work on his Instagram page.The singer also posted a supportive comment on a video Ms Graham had uploaded in May that reflected on her clinical depression and battle with bipolar disorder.He wrote: "I played Knebworth and no one knew how truly broken I was. You couldn’t tell. I presented as someone who was the opposite of how I truly felt. And that is what I see represented in your art."
Ms Graham has spoken openly about how she has had bipolar disorder since 2005 and how in 2017 she was sectioned with psychosis.The artist said she had been in remission for five years, and in 2023 she united celebrities such as Leigh Francis and Jodie Whittaker to raise money for Samaritans.Her brightly coloured paintings, often of sweets and toys, have been studied in schools, and in 2012 she was commissioned to create the cover of the Kaiser Chiefs' album Souvenirs.She admitted that as a teenager, her bedroom was covered in Take That posters, with one wall dedicated to her "lifelong hero", Robbie Williams.
"When it first appeared on my Instagram this morning I thought somebody had hacked his account," she said."The fact he's championing artists is amazing. It's so hard to raise your profile and get it out there. I've been slogging away for 23 years."To get recognition from a celebrity with this kind of status - the impact this will have on me is immeasurable."He's put it out there for the world to see. To say he was broken at Knebworth - for him to put something like that in response to my video is really powerful and is going to help so many people."
In his comment to Ms Graham, the multi-Brit winner from Stoke -on-Trent said: "Your art, the joy of the subjects you pick. The colours. The silliness, the whimsy, the kindness. "The childlike wonder that you so effortlessly bring to life with your incredible gifts are the truth, are you. They always were and always will be."He encouraged his three million followers to "give Sarah a digital cuddle".
Ms Graham said that in 2012, when she was unwell, she had painted all five members of the then-recently reunited Take That, but it had failed to sell at an auction.Now she is hopeful the singer will sign the picture - which she admitted is "not my best work" - to raise money for a mental health charity.She said: "Everybody has been so positive. It's really beautiful."
Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
