Children at a school have taken a step closer to being moved from buildings "at the end of their functional life".
It was recommended in 2022 that a new site be built to rehouse pupils from Princes Primary in Toxteth, Liverpool. 
Liverpool City Council documents showed that while the school was safe, it was in "very poor condition" and could not be fixed with children in attendance.
Subject to cabinet approval, the authority will soon take a major move forward to create a new site.
Two years ago, an education report identified how more than 4,000 children in Liverpool have educational health care plans (EHCPs), an increase of 46% since 2019. 
Proposals were put forward to relocate the Toxteth school to a new site to add a further 60 places alongside the 150 existing pupils with very complex additional needs and disabilities.
Originally, a consultation had sought views on relocating the school almost 30 minutes away on Long Lane, but that was disregarded when a plan to relocate north Liverpool students to Speke fell through.
As a result, a new site has been established, but has yet to be confirmed.
In June 2023, a budget of £1.8m was made available by the council's cabinet to begin the design and planning works for the new school. 
City councillors are expected to agree to proposals to move ahead with the appointment of a consultant to develop the scheme at a meeting next week.
The estimated cost of building a new school is £22m, while an additional £9m would be needed annually to place the pupils in alternative independent schools.
Analysis by the council said the school's existing main site was in a "poor state of repair and cannot be refurbished while the site is in occupation".
Additionally, some key building services were said to have failed and there has been additional expense for the council to keep it open.
Members are also expected to endorse the award of a contract to Avison Young as its strategic property partner in a bid to amend failings around disposals found in the 2021 Caller Report. 
The terms are worth £1.9m for a period of 36 months.
Why not follow BBC Merseyside on Facebook, X and Instagram? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
