A Met Police officer has been given a 12-week suspended prison sentence for assaulting a man he thought was the perpetrator of a crime rather than the victim. 
PC Jonathan Marsh responded to a report of a man damaging a sign on a clinic in Romford, east London, in November 2022.
He punched Rasike Attanayake, who had called 999, and arrested him.
Westminster magistrates imposed 150 hours of unpaid work on Marsh, who is currently suspended from work.
He must also pay £1,500 in compensation.
Mr Attanayake, a medical worker, was handcuffed and put in the back of a police car before the officers realised their mistake and de-arrested him.
Marsh, from Canvey Island in Essex, was found guilty of common assault.
The court heard that Marsh had no prior convictions and had received a number of positive character references, but Judge Annabel Pilling described his actions as "disgusting and unwarranted".
She told the court: "I accept it was out of character and you lost self-control.
"As a police officer, you were in a position of significant responsibility. These actions will reduce trust and confidence in police."
Speaking after the trial, father-of-two Mr Attanayake, 42, originally from Sri Lanka, said the assault had harmed him both psychologically and physically.
He said: "I play cricket as a bowler, but I have been unable to play because of issues I now have with my shoulder. It will get better but I have missed two seasons already.
"Psychologically, I now get triggered by alarms and people in uniforms. I have been a law-abiding citizen since I have lived in the UK."
Mr Attanayake also said he was yet to receive an apology from the Metropolitan Police, and had been told the incident was merely a case of "mistaken identity".
After the sentencing, he said: "There has been justice and this shows the resilience of our legal system. No-one is above the law.
"This has dented my trust in local police and I believe more training is needed for these type of incidents.
"But I have no grudge and have no bad feeling for police. Has there been justice? Absolutely." 
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
