A breeder who kept horses in such squalid conditions that 10 had to be put down has been banned from owning more indefinitely.
Jane Moore, 66, of Jemoon Stud Farm in Long Lane, Market Weighton, pleaded guilty to 10 offences of causing unnecessary suffering to 17 horses.
She also admitted a charge of failing to meet the needs of 36 horses.
On 17 January, Moore was sentenced at Hull Magistrates' Court to 26 weeks' imprisonment, suspended for two years.
Of the 36 horses kept on the farm, 22 were underweight and most were suffering from dental issues and overgrown hooves, the RSPCA said.
RSPCA inspector Natalie Hill told how she visited the farm on 14 February 2023 after welfare concerns were raised. 
An equine vet found one horse to be in such a poor state of health that it was decided to put it down immediately, the RSPCA said. Six other horses were seized.
In a statement given to the court, Ms Hill said: "All the horses were living in extremely dirty stables with little food or water.
"Within one stable block there was a very strong smell of urine and the horses' rugs were found to be very dirty and extremely heavy. It appeared to me that all the horse stables had not been cleaned in some time."
The court heard, at the time of the RSPCA's visit, Moore was in hospital and had left the horses to be cared for by friends.
When it became clear those friends were unable to meet the needs of the remaining horses, all of the animals were removed, the RSPCA said.
After the hearing, Ms Hill said: "In all 10 of the 36 horses have had to be put to sleep and the others have got long-term health issues from being neglected for such a long time, such as ligament and joint problems."
She added only a "small number" would be able to be rehomed.
In addition to the suspended sentence, Moore was ordered to pay £13,099.27 costs and a victim surcharge of £154. 
Follow BBC East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastyorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
