NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — The Nashville Predators have signed forward Filip Forsberg to a six-year, $36 million contract, locking up one of their brightest young stars long term.
Forsberg will make $6 million each of the next six seasons under terms of the deal announced Monday, At a Monday conference call, Forsberg described the negotiations as a “really smooth process.”
“To be honest with you, I never really thought about anything else but staying in Nashville,” Forsberg said. “I think we’ve got something really interesting going and I wanted to be a part of that.”
Forsberg, 21, led the Predators in goals (33) and points (64) for the second straight season in 2015-16. He tied a single-season franchise record in goals and ranked 10th in the NHL in that category. That followed a 2014-15 season in which Forsberg had 26 goals and 37 assists.
The 6-foot-1, 205-pound wing has played all 82 of Nashville’s regular-season games each of the last two years.
“Filip is among the most skilled, dynamic talents we’ve ever had in the organization and is an integral part of our success for the next six years and beyond,” Predators general manager David Poile said in a statement. “While we have already seen his creativity, hockey sense and puck skills, he has yet to reach the peak of his abilities. We have full confidence that he will continue to blossom into one of the top players in the world.”
The Predators acquired Forsberg in an April 2013 trade that sent forwards Martin Erat and Michael Latta to the Washington Capitals.

        
    
Forsberg said Monday that his Nashville experience has “been great since Day One.” He wanted to stay in Nashville as part of a nucleus that enabled the Predators to reach the postseason each of the last two seasons.
Nashville advanced to the second round of the playoffs this past season before losing to the San Jose Sharks in seven games.
“It’s going to be really interesting to be a part of this and just try to build on it,” Forsberg said. “We had a really good team last year. If all the players that we’ve still got can just improve and get better, and we add something in free agency and stuff like that, we have a really good chance of winning the Cup in the future.”
