The Prince and Princess of Wales have called the England team "an inspiration to all of us, young and old" in a personal message posted on social media.In the post, they also shared a picture of their children Princess Charlotte and Prince Louis watching Sunday night's Euros final defeat to Spain, wearing England shirts bearing their names and ages.The couple's full message reads: "England, your teamwork, grit and determination were an inspiration to all of us, young and old. Congratulations to Spain. W & C"Prince William and his eldest son Prince George watched the game at the Olympiastadion in Berlin on Sunday evening.The Prince of Wales shook hands with the England team and handed them runners-up medals after the match.King Charles also sent a message to the England team after the match. In a letter to manager Gareth Southgate, he urged him and the team to "hold your heads high".
England's heartbreaking 2-1 defeat left fans devastated, as many had hoped to see the men's team win a major trophy for the first time in 58 years. But many still had hope for the future. Matthew Adams, 30, from Bournemouth, said: "The future is so bright with the young players in the squad that have performed so well."If that's the future of England, then it's a positive future." Preethi Rai, 38, from London said Gareth Southgate "deserves some credit" for his work as England manager. Speaking after the screening at London's O2 Arena she added: "He's brought us up to a level where we can compete with an amazing Spain team."Southgate and several England players were seen leaving their hotel in Berlin on Monday morning.In a post on X, formerly Twitter, England captain Harry Kane said he was "heartbroken" over the loss. "It was a long tough tournament and I’m so proud of the boys and staff for getting to the final," he said.
Prince William was pictured with Prince George in the stands at the final on Sunday, seated near King Felipe and Princess Leonor of Spain, and Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer.He also attended earlier games in the tournament, watching England's quarter final victory over Switzerland, and the group stage match against Denmark. Downing Street said Gareth Southgate had "provided great leadership and done the country proud".Asked if Mr Southgate would be knighted, a spokesman said: “Honours are a matter for the independent committee.”Earlier on Sunday, Catherine, Princess of Wales, took Princess Charlotte to Wimbledon to watch Carlos Alcaraz beat Novak Djokovic in the men's singles final. It was Catherine's second public appearance following her cancer diagnosis and abdominal surgery earlier this year, and she was met with a standing ovation by spectators.
Sign up here to get the latest royal stories and analysis straight to your inbox every week with our Royal Watch newsletter. Those outside the UK can sign up here.
