Runners have been left feeling "conned" after a sports events company announced its closure.
Run Afan Forest, set up following the liquidation of sister company Tough Runner UK, has cancelled several of its sporting events at short notice.
It was accused of not offering refunds to those signed up for races including a 10K and half marathon.
Director of the Swansea-based firm Adam Newton called accusations "inaccurate and unfounded".
He said all those affected have been offered race credits, adding: "Nobody should feel let down."
Ruth Heavyside, from Cardiff, booked the Buff Epic Trail 10K, which was due to take place at Afan Forest country park, near Port Talbot, on 2 December.
The 39-year-old graphic designer did the same event last year and thought it was an "amazing atmosphere".
"I absolutely loved it but I was disappointed with my performance. I'd had a rough couple of weeks of poor mental health, I'd been really stressed and really struggling, and as much as I did my best to power up those hills I was disappointed," she said. 
"I decided I wanted a rematch."
Since last year's event, she had heard running friends say they had been "messed about" by Run Afan Forest.
One said their event date was changed, and another found no water at a half marathon she attended.
On Wednesday, Run Afan Forest announced on its website that it was closing. 
Its director Mr Newton said he had "deep concern regarding the current state of governance within our sport" and that "failure" of national governing bodies to "provide effective support" had "directly contributed to the downfall of our business". 
Ms Heavyside said: "No email confirmation from them, no cancellation, no apology. Just social media to point me in the direction of their website and let me know that my event is cancelled."
Ms Heavyside entered during a bank holiday sale in May and it cost her £22, which was due to include a free water bottle or running cap which she did not receive. 
Having not heard anything about refunds, she now hopes to recoup the money via her bank.
"It's just not fair for people who pay however much money for a race event, just for it to be cancelled. It's just not acceptable.
"You might think it's not the biggest amount of money, but for a family with small children with Christmas coming up… we're working as hard as we can, there's the cost of living," she said.
Gareth Rees, 54, from Saundersfoot, Pembrokeshire, spent £75 on two places at Run Afan Forest's Pembrokeshire Trail Half Marathon scheduled for May 2024. 
He booked the event, to be held at Canaston Woods, Narberth, when it was launched about three weeks ago, as a surprise for his wife, Tara.
But red flags were raised when members of his triathlon club, Tenby Aces, posted on social media about not hearing anything from the company ahead of events this weekend. 
"The more you read into it, the more it was obvious [my event] wasn't going to happen," he said.
He added the event was still being advertised by the company as late as last week.
"People were entering even though the rumblings were already there," he said.
"I saw all the media about the event and because it was on the doorstep, I went straight in. I was promoting that event with club members to try and have a group of us together.
"You feel you've been conned."   
Last week, Welsh Triathlon, Triathlon England and Triathlon Scotland said in a joint statement Run Afan Forest would no longer receive event permits.
"The decision follows the failure of the event organiser to meet the terms and conditions required to issue event permits," it said.
On Tuesday, governing body Welsh Athletics said the company was "suspended from delivering Welsh Athletics licensed events", adding: "The decision will allow Welsh Athletics to undertake a review into the competition provider."
One of the firm's planned events, the Pembrey MT 10, was due to happen on Sunday, but was cancelled earlier this week.
However, Carmarthenshire council, which runs Pembrey Country Park, where it was due to take place, said no agreement was in place for the event to happen.
Councillor Hazel Evans, cabinet member for regeneration, leisure and tourism, said: "Whilst the county council has had dialogue with Run Afan regarding the MT10, the council can confirm that no agreement was made for this event to go ahead and this was clearly communicated to Run Afan in September 2023."
Despite this, Mr Newton said organisers were considering "all avenues of how we could still deliver the event".
Its races were booked by participants through a platform called Let's Do This.
Mr Newton said his company was working with the platform to offer affected customers a credit that can be used for any event listed on their website. 
"This way, you can still make the most out of your booking and find an alternative event that suits your preferences," he said.
Let's Do This has been contacted for comment.
