The family of a much-loved mother and grandmother have said she would be "really proud" that nearly £1,000 was raised for a clothing bank in her memory. Mary Meehan, who died last month aged 84, had asked that her clothes be donated and a collection be set up at her funeral to help those unable to afford to buy their own. Mrs Meehan, who was originally from Ireland but lived most of her adult life in Yorkshire, had relied on donated clothes herself as a young single mum to seven daughters. The Clothing Bank, who are based near Ferrybridge, in West Yorkshire, said it was "overwhelmed" by the gesture.
Mary's second-youngest daughter, Mandy Meehan, said her mum had worked three jobs at a time to keep her family afloat. The sisters would often get their clothes through the Catholic charity, St Vincent de Paul, or through jumble sales with the help of nuns at their Leeds school. 
Mandy said her mum, who spent her final years in living in Tadcaster, had wanted other people to "get the sort of help we got when we were being brought up". "She gave us brilliant morals and she brought us up to work really hard," Mandy said."I think she’d be really proud. She never really had a lot of money, but whenever she did have a bit she just wanted to give it to other people.""She was a really giving person. She always used to say, ‘what do I want lots of money for?’ That’s just how she was built."Susan Bell, co-founder of The Clothing Bank, said Mary's clothes had been donated to residents at a care home, who were Mary's "age and size". The charity, which sends out clothes packages to families across the UK, was swamped with heartwarming responses when they posted about what her family had done on Facebook."We were overwhelmed by what she’s done for us, because you don’t expect it," Ms Bell said."It’s a really nice gesture. She’s become a mini-celebrity!"It’s the first donation we’ve ever had from a funeral collection and it's kept her legacy alive really."Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
