A man who stabbed and strangled his mother to death at her home after she tried to seek mental health support for him has been given a hospital order.
Helen Harrison, 59, was discovered fatally injured in Aspen Close, Market Weighton, on 5 March last year.
Rick Parker, 40, was charged with her murder but was found to be unfit to plead due to mental health issues, Hull Crown Court heard.
The judge said the order would allow for him to get the treatment he needed.
The court previously heard that the defendant had developed mental health issues following a road accident.
On the day of her death, Ms Harrison had called for an ambulance to get him some treatment, the court heard.
She wanted him to have a mental health assessment, but the attending paramedics said he appeared to be calm and it was not possible to make him leave against his will, said prosecutors.
Geraldine Kelly, prosecuting, said: "It must have been very soon after the ambulance left that Rick Parker attacked and killed his mother."
Shortly afterwards, the court was told, Parker had called 999 and told call handlers it was "definitely a body-bag job".
When paramedics arrived, Parker directed them to the hallway where his mother lay dead and told police the weapon - a large kitchen knife - was still embedded in her shoulder, the court heard.
Two weeks earlier, Parker had launched "an unprovoked attack" on his stepfather after he overheard an argument which had upset his mother, Ms Kelly said.
The case was heard as a trial of the facts, so the jury was not required to return a verdict of guilty or not guilty.
Instead they were asked to decide whether or not the accused committed the offences with which he had been charged.
The jury concluded Parker had killed his mother and attacked his stepfather.
Judge John Thackray KC told the court that his "only option was to pass a hospital order".
He told Parker he would be transferred to Rampton high-security psychiatric hospital in Nottinghamshire where "they will give you the treatment you require".
Speaking after the hearing, Det Supt Nicola Burnett, from Humberside Police, said: "This has been an incredibly difficult investigation that has left a family utterly devastated. 
"I would like to thank them for their dignity throughout the proceedings and my thoughts remain with them today.
"They have been through a harrowing tribulation and ask that their privacy is respected at this difficult time."
Follow BBC East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
