Denver’s Nikola Jokic was the runaway MVP this season, which made it a virtual certainty that he would also be an All-NBA first-team selection.
Here’s the rarity: The MVP runner-up was not a first-team selection.
Jokic headlined the All-NBA first team that was unveiled Tuesday night, but Philadelphia’s Joel Embiid — who was second in the MVP race — only made the second team. Jokic and Embiid are primarily centers, in the eyes of most voters, and that meant they were vying for that position on the first team.
The rest of the first team: Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo (the only unanimous first-team selection) and the Los Angeles Clippers’ Kawhi Leonard at forward, along with Golden State’s Stephen Curry and Dallas’ Luka Doncic at guard.
The second team picks, along with Embiid at center, were the Los Angeles Lakers’ LeBron James and New York’s Julius Randle at forward, plus Portland’s Damian Lillard and Phoenix’s Chris Paul at guard.
Cancer survivor Oskar Lindblom of the Philadelphia Flyers was named Tuesday as the winner of the Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy for perseverance, sportsmanship and dedication to hockey. 
Lindblom returned to play in the NHL after undergoing treatment for a rare form of bone cancer. Lindblom was diagnosed with Ewing’s sarcoma in December 2019 and played two games for Philadelphia during the bubble playoffs in September 2020.
The 24-year-old Swede regained his regular spot in the Flyers’ lineup this season and played 50 of 56 games. He recorded 14 points averaging just over 13 minutes of ice time.

        
    
Lindblom completed treatment in July and was again declared cancer-free following another scan in March. He said at the time he would feel good one day and like he hadn’t played hockey for a while the next.
DETROIT (AP) — Former University of Michigan football players and others who say they were sexually abused by a now-deceased team doctor are expected to call for action by the University of Michigan’s board as the legacy of the school’s legendary gridiron coach is being questioned over what he knew.
The group has planned a news conference in Ann Arbor on Wednesday — a day before Michigan regents are to hold a regularly scheduled meeting.
No action items involving former coach Bo Schembechler, Dr. Robert E. Anderson or litigation against the school by abuse victims were listed on the agenda for the virtual meeting.
The Associated Press emailed regents Tuesday for comment. A spokesman for regent Jordan Acker said he “will be willing to talk at some point but not now because this matter is ongoing.”
Hundreds of men allegedly were abused by Anderson during his nearly four decades working for the university — a period in which he also treated staffers, their families and other patients.
DETROIT (AP) — Detroit Mercy has named LaTanya Collins as it’s interim women’s basketball coach to replace AnnMarie Gilbert.
The school made the announcement Tuesday night, saying Gilbert has left the school.
Two months ago, Detroit Mercy retained Gilbert after an independent review of players’ concerns. The allegations against Gilbert led to the the Titans’ suspending their season in January and submitting a report to the NCAA.
Detroit Mercy had said it has implemented additional measures to make sure the program follows core values of the university as well as NCAA rules.
The Detroit News reported earlier this year that parents of every player on the team signed a letter and sent it to the school’s administration, detailing allegations that Gilbert inflicted emotional, mental and physical abuse on their children.
When the Titans season was suspended with a 1-13 record, athletic director Robert Vowels said the health and well-being of the athletes was the department’s top priority. Vowels said in January that he had talked with all players and members of the program about their concerns.
More AP sports: https://apnews.com/hub/apf-sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports 
