Campaigners have protested against plans to cut bus services.
Dozens attended the rally in Wiveliscombe on Saturday, in protest of plans to reduce the Dulverton to Taunton 25 First South West service.
Patricia, who uses the bus regularly, said many people "would be extremely isolated" if the service was reduced.
Somerset Council and First South West said they "understand the concerns of the community" and were "working to find a way forward".
"In Wiveliscombe we need them [buses] because we haven't got a dentist, we haven't got an opticians, if we need to make a hospital appointment, we have to get into Taunton," Patricia added.
The proposals for the 25 service include a reduction to the timetable, with buses every three hours instead of two.
Three other bus routes are also affected, with the 54 and 58 service from Taunton to Yeovil and Yeovil to Wincanton facing the axe altogether.
The 28 bus service from Minehead to Taunton is facing a reduction to its timetable.
The council and Buses of Somerset, the trading name used by First South West for services operated in the county, said they "continue to have positive discussions over the future of the four routes". 
"We're exploring all opportunities and are now looking at detailed proposals.
"We hope to be able to provide an update as soon as possible," they added.
David Northey, from Somerset Bus Partnership, which is campaigning to keep the bus services, said: "It was important to get the public involved to show that actually, the bus services really matter to them."
Pat, who lives in Wiveliscombe, said: "It makes the whole place possible for living here. It's a major part of why I'm here.
"We do have a car, but we're getting older, we can't use the car much, and health is going to mean we're going to have to stop completely. I just feel we're stuck here," she added.
Barry West, from the RMT Union said the bus services were a "vital and critical link" and the cuts could have an impact on jobs in the area.
He said: "We want to support these people in these local rural communities. 
"Many people who depend on these are vulnerable, the elderly and the disabled," he added.
Follow BBC West on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: bristol@bbc.co.uk 
