A woman said her young son was scared the family would be arrested when "aggressive” Eurostar staff asked her to take their kirpans - religious miniature swords worn by Sikhs - out of their suitcase.Karen Kaur was travelling home from Paris to Bedfordshire with her family when she was told they had to put their kirpans in a tray.Mrs Kaur claimed she checked the train operator's website before setting off but the religious blade was not mentioned as an item that was banned or needed to be handed in.Eurostar told the BBC kirpans were not permitted but apologised that the message was not delivered in a sensitive way.
Mrs Kaur is an Amritdhari Sikh (initiated Sikh) who wears a kirpan.The kirpan is an article of faith to protect others and its part of the religious uniform to be worn at all times.She said: “I had assumed it would be fine as the kirpan is legal to carry in the UK.”After the blade was detected, she said staff "were really aggressive"."It got heated and a manager was called, while demanding to put our kirpans in the tray. We eventually put the kirpans in the tray but continued to protest," she said."It was tiring and disturbing and my son cried - he was frightened we'd be arrested. I was enraged inside.”
Mrs Kaur said she had travelled via train from Paris to London before but added: "This is the first time they have said I can’t take my kirpan at all. I was completely baffled.”She claimed the manager told her "daggers" were not allowed on the Eurostar but agreed to let her on board "if the driver was fine with it"."The manager then made an executive decision and rushed us to the train. She changed our seats to first class," she said."I was bamboozled because it sounded like she had a complete U-turn when she went to speak to 'the train driver' or whoever."
Dabinderjit Singh, principal adviser of the Sikh Federation (UK), said he had never been stopped on Eurostar journeys while wearing his kirpan."If Eurostar is now stating their policy has always been to only allow retractable blades, meaning kirpans are banned, the public should boycott Eurostar until they change their discriminatory policy," he said.He said the stance "makes no sense" as other permitted blades "could easily be taken out and used to cause much more serious damage and harm."He added: “Since 2010, international aviation rules have in effect allowed fully practising Sikh passengers to be able to wear small kirpans when flying on a plane.  "I have always worn a kirpan when flying out of the UK and Eurostar need to realise their policy is daft and stinks of racism.”
A Eurostar spokesperson said: “Under security regulations set for Eurostar by the Joint Security Committee of the four countries we operate in, non-retractable blades are not allowed to be carried by customers. "This does include kirpans. "Small, retractable or folding blades under 75mm without a locking mechanism, such as pocket knives are permitted."We’re really sorry that this was not explained in a sensitive manner to the customers involved and the full, correct information was not given via customer enquiries online."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
