A hundred volunteers have helped to wrap 7,200 Christmas presents for children living in war-torn Ukraine. It was the second  consecutive year that gifts, including toys, books and puzzles, had been donated by local businesses.The so-called "wrapathon" took place at Thomas Mills High School in Framlingham, Suffolk, on Saturday.Organisers said the shipment would be distributed across Ukraine, including in areas occupied by Russia's armed forces.
The charity Save the Children said more than four million children in Ukraine remained in "urgent need of humanitarian assistance" almost two years after the war first began.
Jeremy Fish, a local businessman and founding member of the Plant and Hire Aid Alliance, which organised the wrapathon, said this year's appeal had been "more challenging" than the last."I think the war in Ukraine has slipped out of the media, there's a bit of public fatigue with it I'm afraid," he said."But it's not getting any easier for the Ukrainians out there. In fact, it's getting worse right now, especially with the onset of winter."
Mr Fish said six weeks ago he helped to arrange the delivery of 750 boxes of aid to Ukrainian soldiers fighting on the front line in the country's Zaporizhzhia region. A battalion was later hit by a Russian missile during an awards ceremony, killing at least 19 soldiers. The unit had previously signed and sent flags to thank the Plant and Hire Aid Alliance for its support, which arrived at Mr Fish's house after the deadly attack."It was very distressing indeed," Mr Fish added.
Maryna Porgyan was among the 100 volunteers who helped to wrap presents.She said: "Lots of children are still without parents and lots of parents can't buy presents for their children."It's very difficult. There is no work, no money and everything is more expensive."Mr Fish said the shipment of gifts would be sent from Ipswich next week and would be distributed across Ukraine by Rotary International in the lead up to Christmas.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
