Pregnant women and new parents in west London who are struggling with their mental health are able to use a free 24/7 text support service.
The project is run by the NHS, the charity Shout, and the Royal College of Psychiatrists.
It will be available for residents in the boroughs of Ealing, Hounslow, and Hammersmith and Fulham.
People who have experienced baby or pregnancy loss are also eligible for the resource.
It will provide real-time support and direct clients to perinatal mental health help.
Fahima, a mother of two from Southall, struggled with severe anxiety, homelessness and isolation during her second pregnancy.
"It was like an out-of-body experience. I wasn't sleeping or eating and I was breastfeeding.  
"I didn't want to be seen as ungrateful. I had a healthy baby in the middle of Covid, and there were women in the same ward as me who had Covid who didn't make it through. 
"I didn't want to speak to anyone. I thought they would say, 'you're homeless, you're a mess, why did you have a baby?'"
Fahima said she didn't realise it at the time but the perinatal team was culturally sensitive to her needs, and that made all the difference.
"I felt very cared for, and valued and human. It never felt like, 'you're sick, you're unwell', and somebody like me, who comes from an African family, from strong black women, that was an important method of treatment for me, because if at any point I had felt judged, I would have withdrawn," she said.
Anxious, stressed, depressed, suicidal or overwhelmed users who need immediate support can text HUG to 85258 and round-the-clock trained volunteers will respond.
Perinatal psychiatrist Dr Sarah Taha said the service "will provide a confidential, non-judgmental platform" that guides individuals to resources.
"This support during such a crucial time will empower individuals to seek help early, leading to improved outcomes for families," she added.
The pilot will run for two years.
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
