A couple who have fostered more than 100 children said it was "wonderful" seeing them give love back when they had not previously understood it.
Joan and Reg East, both 78, from Hertfordshire, first fostered a baby girl in 1984 and still foster today.
Mr East said: "We have never been empty in our house."
Hertfordshire County Council is experiencing a severe shortage of people who can look after children, with about 1,000 currently in care.
The married pair started fostering when Mrs East worked as a secretary to a health visitor and heard about a baby girl in hospital who needed care.
Forty years on, the couple are currently looking after a 20-year-old, who joined them aged 12, and are fostering a 15-year-old boy.
"Seeing the children bloom is such a lovely feeling," said Mrs East.
"You take them in and they don't really understand love, but by the time they leave, they've started to give love back. It's a wonderful feeling," she said. 
Her husband said the couple had "never been without a foster child".
They still keep in touch with many and last year attended the wedding of someone they had cared for.
"We have always wanted to give children TLC. Some of the kids who haven't been as lucky in life as we have, we want to give them a better life," said Mr East.
The couple, who have three grown up sons, said it did their own children good and made them more appreciative of family life.
Mrs East said: "People think you are wonderful for being a foster carer, but you are just an ordinary person."
Fiona Thomson, Hertfordshire County Council's cabinet member for children, young people and families, said: "It's truly wonderful that Joan and Reg have given so much of their life to helping so many children.
"We are very grateful to them, as are the many children whose lives they have touched."
Speaking about whether people should become foster carers, Mrs East said: "Just go for it. You won't regret it."
You can find out more on Hertfordshire County Council's website.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
