He is the former taxi driver and lorry driver who has just swept aside mainstream political parties in the recent local elections.Warren Gibson is leader of the People's Independent Party (PIP) on Castle Point Borough Council in Essex.The group won 24 out of a possible 39 seats in the election earlier this month. "I do enjoy it, it’s good to give something back to the community," said the 48-year-old.
The council is one of only two in England that is made up entirely of independent politicians.
Together with the Canvey Island Independent Party, which secured 15 seats in the recent election, they are due to run the council without any established opposition.Mr Gibson is due to be reappointed as deputy leader of the council on Wednesday night.
No Conservative, Labour or Liberal Democrat survived the independent surge in Castle Point on 2 May, with the collapse of the blue vote most surprising in an area where Tory MP Rebecca Harris enjoys a majority of more than 26,000.Thirteen Tories did not appear on the ballot paper in the borough due to an administrative error.Mr Gibson added: "We’re purely local - local people for local people - that’s our slogan, and that’s what we do."Our aim first and foremost is to help the residents of Castle Point."
PIP started out with people seeking to oppose the borough's local plan, a document setting out where more than 5,000 homes should be built."I’ve never ever wanted to get involved in politics," Mr Gibson said."I’ve lived in this borough all my life; my mum and dad live here, my family lives here, and I think it all came around in lockdown. "I was a taxi driver and was a little bit upset about the previous local plan which was going to include lots on areas of green belt near where I live."A few of us who were like-minded got together and thought we’ll try and see if we can change it."
The Local Government Information Unit (LGIU) says all-independent local councils do not happen "very often" in England, with only the Isles of Scilly joining Castle Point in this unique set-up. An LGIU spokesperson said while this was rare it was happening at a time when "we are seeing more independent councillors now then we have seen for ages".The council says both independent parties will work together as a joint administration, which begs the question: who are the opposition and who will scrutinise the administration's work?That may lead to some unusual solutions.
Mr Gibson added: "What we might be doing is getting someone from outside the council to chair those scrutiny committees."We will be scrutinised and we will be honest and transparent."He also said he had received "one or two inquiries" from residents' associations, including in Essex, asking about setting up similar independent parties.A spokesperson for the council said: "We are very aware that we now have no obvious opposition party."The council remains committed to accountability and scrutiny and will put in place best practice models of governance to ensure this happens."
Follow Essex news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
