General election candidates in the Ipswich constituency have gone up against one another in a live debate hosted by BBC Radio Suffolk's Sarah Lilley.Here are some of the key takeaways from the conversation, which you can watch here.
Plans to build a new road around the north side of Ipswich were scrapped in 2020 due to a lack of "support".The panel was split on whether it's needed.Traffic in Ipswich town centre grinds to a halt when the nearby A14 Orwell Bridge closes, with thousands of lorries having no other way across the river. Green candidate Adria Pittock said a new road was "not the solution at all" and public transport and cycling should be the focus. Tony Love for Reform UK said he "didn't know" if a northern bypass was a good idea and local authorities should find traffic solutions.Labour's Jack Abbott said the bypass should be "back on the table" and more investment was needed in the rail lines.James Sandbach, the Liberal Democrat candidate, said a northern bypass "wasn't the right solution" but said there was a traffic management problem in and around Ipswich. Conservative Tom Hunt said he supports a northern bypass and the "case needs to be renewed". He pointed to new homes being built on the outskirts of Ipswich.
There are mixed views on Ipswich town centre.There are a number of empty shops in the town centre and some raise concerns about safety.But for others it's an exciting place to live, with numerous community groups organising events.So should we be more positive about Ipswich?Liberal Democrat James Sandbach said many town centres face similar problems and praised the "community and cultural events" held in the town.He accused the Tory candidate, Tom Hunt (who won the seat in 2019) of being negative about the town.Mr Hunt said his words "reflect thousands of conversations I have". He said people tell him they avoid the town centre due to not feeling safe.Reform candidate Tony Love said he "wouldn't open a business anywhere near the centre of Ipswich" and said people were in tears talking to him about the town.The Green's Adria Pittock said there was "fearmongering" and as a woman she "feels safe walking through town". But she admitted the town has a "bad rep" that she doesn't think it deserves."It doesn't help when you've got an MP slagging off the town," said Labour's Jack Abbott. Mr Abbott said Ipswich Town FC's promotion to the Premier League was a "real opportunity" for the town.
Another issue that split the panel was immigration. It's a polarising topic for many and could be a vote-winner or loser for any candidate anywhere in the country.Ipswich had one of its main hotels used to home asylum seekers. There was a protest and a counter protest and tensions ran high. "The numbers are out of control" said Conservative Tom Hunt on legal migration and we need to "clamp down hard" on illegal immigration.He said his own party hadn't gone far enough on the topic.Labour's Jack Abbott called some of the government's immigration plans "gimmicky" and said processing asylum claims needed to be a priority. Liberal Democrat James Sandbach said some were "demonising" illegal immigrants and said immigration is a good thing, making communities more "vibrant". Reform UK are centring their campaign on immigration and their candidate said "the people of Ipswich have lost their town".Green candidate Adria Pittock called for a "more humane way of treating people" and said climate change will create more refugees. 
Politics in Ipswich can be quite combative.Social media is often the battleground, particularly between Labour and Conservative members. The debate did see, what can best be described, as arguments between the candidates.Clashes over some subjects saw the panel asking each other questions and often talking over one another. There was also some shouting and a bit of laughing.But at the end they all shook each others hands and left on (fairly) friendly terms.
In any general election Ipswich is a really interesting seat.Whoever wins Ipswich tends to have good election night across the country. The voters will decide who the next MP for the town is but historically it's been a battle between the Conservatives and Labour.Debates like this, I think, give voters a better view of the personalities behind the politics.You can read manifestos and watch scripted social media posts, but when someone is under pressure, you often hear what they really think.Will the debate have won or lost any votes for candidates? No clue.But we now have a better understanding of what these wannabe MPs feel about Ipswich and their priorities. 
Also standing in Ipswich are Terence Charles for the Heritage Party and Freddie Sofar for the Communist Party of Britain, but they did not take part in the election debate.A full list of candidates can be found here.

Follow Suffolk news on Facebook, Instagram, and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
