A mental health nurse says she is "amazed" after being recognised for saving the life of a six-week-old baby while off duty.Nancy Sagwete, who works for Avon and Wiltshire Mental Health Partnership NHS Trust (AWP) at the Petherton Resource Centre in Bristol, received a special police bravery award for her quick thinking.Ms Sagwete, who lives in Stevenage in Hertfordshire, said she used life support training to save her neighbour's baby, Lily, who was not breathing.“I’m so grateful that I’ve had the chance to do something great and save a life," she said.
Ms Sagwete explained her neighbour knocked on her door on a Saturday morning in May 2023."As soon as I opened it, she just placed this little lifeless baby in my hands. The baby was not breathing, she was blue," she said.“My mind raced and I just thought of the basic life support training I have done during my nursing career. "I started giving the child rescue breaths and she came back,” Ms Sagwete said.Lily had been born prematurely and was suffering with a chest infection.She was taken to hospital where she stayed for several weeks before making a full recovery.Ms Sagwete was presented with her award by Hertfordshire Constabulary Chief Constable Charlie Hall at the police headquarters.
She said she was "so pleased and amazed" to be recognised for her actions. “I shared the news with the rest of the nursing team at work and everyone was coming up to me and saying ‘well done!’“It was a nice feeling and I would urge all nurses to not take the life-saving training we do for granted. You might have to use it at some point in your life,” she said."Every time I see baby Lily now I just tap myself on the heart and say ‘it is me who has done this’,” she added.Ms Sagwete's team leader Barabara Wireko, congratulated her, adding: "She is truly inspiring."She works hard to support everyone, especially the service users under her care. We can all agree that she’s a pleasure to work with.”
Follow BBC Bristol on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
