TV presenter and farmer Jimmy Doherty has called for a vaccination programme against bird flu for British poultry or a proper compensation scheme.
Mr Doherty made the call at a recording of BBC Politics East at Jimmy's Farm and Wildlife Park, near Ipswich. 
The view was backed by Paul Kelly, of Essex turkey producer KellyBronze, who said: "If you vaccinate, you eliminate the risk."
The government said it was investing in the development of vaccines.
Mr Doherty, who runs the 24-acre farm and attraction at Wherstead, near Ipswich, said he understands that poultry vaccination plans are being delayed by international trade deals, but is concerned about the possibility of another bird flu outbreak.
In 2022 the H5N1 virus, which was first reported in China in 1996. severely damaged the poultry industry.
About 3.2 million birds were culled in the UK and 45 million across the EU.
Mr Doherty told BBC Politics East: "We don't want to miss out on any trade deals. At the same time we don't want to see farmers' livelihoods disappear. That's why the issue is important.
"We've been through Covid, we've vaccinated ourselves. It makes sense. If we don't have vaccination we need a proper compensation for losses."
Mr Kelly said: "If we get birds vaccinated, you eliminate the risk. The vaccines have been developed. We are sorting trade issues out with our trading partners."
He said that vaccination plans had been delayed partly because the flu has not hit birds in 2023 yet, which may be due to wild birds developing some immunity or other unknown reasons.
Mark Gorton, who runs Traditional Norfolk Poultry, said: "The vaccine is the only way we can be sure we can protect our birds. This the only thing we can do and the sooner we can get on with vaccinating our birds the safer they'll be."
Jimmy's Farm was originally set up in 2002 to try to preserve the Essex pig breed, but has since expanded to feature 100 species including wallabies, tapir and lemur.
Mr Doherty came to prominence with the show Jimmy's Farm, when the BBC followed his efforts in setting up the farm, just off the A14.
The friend of TV chef Jamie Oliver is also known for presenting shows including Jimmy's Food Factory and co-hosting Channel 4's Jamie & Jimmy's Friday Night Feast - a cooking show based at Southend Pier.
A spokesperson for the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said: "We know the devastating impact bird flu has had on farmers and poultry producers, which is why we have altered the compensation process to support farmers from the outset of planned culling whilst also investing in research and the development of vaccines aimed at tackling this virus.
"More widely, we remain committed to ensuring that British farmers become more productive, profitable and sustainable. 
"As well as providing £600m in grants for equipment and innovation, we are allocating 45,000 seasonal workers this year and next to ensure growers have the workforce they need to put fresh produce on our tables."
BBC Politics East will be broadcast on Sunday, 17 December at 10:00 GMT on BBC One and will be available after broadcast on the BBC iPlayer.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830 
