Parents of children who attend a school where abuse was uncovered by a BBC Panorama investigation have appealed for people not to take reprisals. Some staff at Life Wirral, an independent school for children with special educational needs, were recorded by an undercover reporter using homophobic language and derogatory terms for people with disabilities.Its base in Wallasey was vandalised shortly after the programme was aired in June. A group of parents have urged people not to target "families of any person shown in the footage" as they had "done nothing wrong". A statement, released through a solicitor, also said they were disappointed that "relevant agencies who had been previously informed of concerns surrounding Life School... failed to take adequate action to protect our children". After the programme, Cruelty In The Classroom, was broadcast, which also uncovered staff manhandling pupils, Wirral Council said it was investigating both the school and its staff. 
Merseyside Police is also investigating Life Wirral, which was previously rated "good" by Ofsted. The watchdog said it had found no issues during an emergency inspection made after concerns were raised about the school. An independent Child Safeguarding Practice Review is ongoing and alternative placements are being found for children who were pulled out of the school by the local authority after it was shown the BBC's evidence. A Wirral Council statement said: "At all times, we have sought to exercise the powers we have to keep children safe and achieving their educational outcomes and that has included liaising with the Department for Education, as the regulator of independent schools, and Ofsted as the inspectorate."We are continuing to work closely with the police as they gather and assess evidence in this case and the Wirral Safeguarding Children Partnership will be commissioning an independent Child Safeguarding Practice Review in due course.”Life Wirral was approached for further comment but did not respond. A spokesperson for the school previously hit out at the BBC, accusing it of acting in a "highly irresponsible manner" and "putting the interests of a television programme ahead of the interests of vulnerable children".The school accused the undercover reporter of "failing in her basic safeguarding duties to report significant concerns", claiming her actions put more vulnerable children at risk for longer.Life Wirral has stood by these claims, but has since added that it "[did] not condone the behaviour of a small proportion of staff".
The BBC has continued to defend its investigation. The corporation said: "The BBC takes issues of safeguarding and protection of vulnerable individuals extremely seriously and has strict editorial guidelines covering undercover investigations, secret recording and investigations involving children."Our investigation was firmly in the public interest and the welfare of the children concerned was our primary consideration."Our undercover reporter gathered evidence over a period of time so we could be confident that what she witnessed demonstrated a clear pattern of behaviour, involving multiple members of staff, and in line with the concerns that had been raised with us."It added: "Prior to our investigation, the local authority and the school were already aware of safeguarding concerns having previously been made by others, and despite the local authority investigating, this had not resulted in meaningful change. "In contrast, when we told the local authority about the findings of our investigation, the placements at the school were suspended and new places are being found elsewhere for the children."
Panorama - Undercover School : Cruelty In The ClassroomWatch the full investigation on BBC iPlayer.
Listen to the best of BBC Radio Merseyside on Sounds and follow BBC Merseyside on Facebook, X, and Instagram. You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
