The diocese where a murderer attended church has disputed some details presented in a TV crime drama.
BBC series The Sixth Commandment tells the story of teacher Peter Farquhar, who was murdered in 2015 by Ben Field.
Field was depicted as a warden at Stowe Parish Church - and a trainee vicar. The Diocese of Oxford said he was not "considered for ordination training".
The programme makers said there was "considerable documentary evidence to the contrary".
The diocese has also said that the programme was a "fine memorial" to the victims.
Field appeared to be a very religious young man but he duped two vulnerable pensioners - Mr Farquhar and his neighbour Ann Moore-Martin - by manipulating them into fake relationships and then getting them to change their wills.
Field is currently serving a life sentence for the murder of Mr Farquhar in Maids Moreton, Buckinghamshire, in October 2015. He was found not guilty of plotting to kill Miss Moore-Martin - but admitted defrauding her.
In the facts and corrections section of its website, the diocese said Field was never considered for ordination training, but did hope to attend a Bishops Advisory Panel (BAP) at which he would be considered for training. There is a reference to the BAP in the programme.
It also said Field first joined the congregation at St Mary's in Stowe in 2013 and was elected Parochial Church Council (PCC) secretary by the congregation in September 2014. He was confirmed in November 2015.
He later became a deputy warden at the church, which is not a formal office in the Church of England and has no legal definition.
At the start of the programme, audiences are told that a true story is depicted based on research, interviews and published accounts with "some scenes created for dramatic purposes".
The BBC said the writer and producers of the programme carried out extensive research in the making of the programme, including working closely with Thames Valley Police.
"The claim that Ben Fields was never considered for ordination training is incorrect and there is considerable documentary evidence to the contrary," a spokesperson said.
"This includes documents given in evidence confirming Field applied for ordination training, that he was considered suitable by the church and that, at the time of his arrest, he had been put forward for the selection panel for ordination training."
The diocese added that the case had been a "hugely difficult ordeal for all those affected" and it was "inclined to agree" with the Guardian's review of the series that it "stands as a fine memorial to Peter Farquhar and Ann Moore-Martin".
A statement on its website said it was an "extraordinary and unusual case".
"[Field] made a pretence of being a committed Christian and gained the confidence of the people of Stowe Parish Church and then, to quote his own words, "I'm gonna become a vicar … just because I can outmanoeuvre the Church," it said.
After Field's sentencing, the diocese carried out a learning lessons review, which found that both the Church of England, and wider society, needed to be "ever more vigilant of those who can be made vulnerable by the likes of Ben Field, simply because they are elderly or lonely". 
Reviewer, Dr Adi Cooper, made 13 recommendations under seven themes for improving safeguarding awareness and prevention.
They included the need for volunteers to be supported and monitored, the screening of people exploring ordained ministry with greater use of psychological testing - and developing the assessment of a candidate's relationships and emotional capability, Dr Cooper wrote.
The Sixth Commandment started on BBC One at 21:00 BST on 17 July and is available to watch on BBC iPlayer.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
