Tributes have been paid to a much-loved cat who lived at a railway station.
Jess, who was looked after by staff at Andover station in Hampshire after his owner abandoned him, passed away earlier this week.
Originally thought to be female, the black and white cat was named Jessica by staff when he first began visiting the area 13 years ago.
On a sign posted in the station, employees wrote the 19-year-old feline would be "sorely missed".
Described as "gentle" and "loving" by staff, Jess spent most of his time roaming the platforms, keeping passengers company whilst they waited for the next stage of their journey.
Tracey Jones, one of the workers who took care of Jess, said it would not be the same without him.
"I'm devastated that I've lost him. Everyone from the community is just as upset and we've had such a massive amount of messages and support from everyone - it's amazing how much of an impact he had on so many people," she said.
Ms Jones noticed a lump on Jess' side two weeks ago, and when vets were unable to easily determine whether it was cancerous, it was decided he was too old to be put through surgery.
By Monday, Jess had deteriorated and a second lump had appeared, so a decision was made to put him to sleep.
Ms Jones said he was a local legend in Andover and was always keen for a cuddle.
"Customers were generous with donations of food, treats, helping towards vets bills and even filling up his stocking at Christmas," she added.
In a sign posted at the station, employees wrote:
"It is with a heavy heart that we must share the sad news that our beloved Jess (the station cat) at Andover has passed away.
"Jess is going to be sorely missed by all the staff, regular passengers, and the local community that Jess had such a big impact on.
"We believe Jess reached the ripe old age of 19 and was well loved and cared for by Tracey and Chris in the ticket office as well as all the other staff members who had the pleasure of working in the ticket office alongside Jess.
"Our thoughts are with everyone who is affected by the loss of Jess."
South Western Railway said the station would be discussing a way to commemorate the feline.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk.
