As the country prepares to go the polls next month, in the middle of Sussex the political map is changing.East Grinstead and Uckfield, two market towns, are about to make history as they form a new parliamentary constituency.Boundary changes happen every 10 to 15 years to reflect changes in the population and keep representation fair.As the population of mid-Sussex has grown, it is time for the area to get a new, extra seat in Parliament.
The Boundary Commission for England 2023 review aimed to make sure all constituencies have roughly 73,300 electors.Martin Baxter, founder of political forecasting website Electoral Calculus, said: “There's been a bit of population movement from the north of England to the south, so the north loses some seats, and the south is gaining some seats, and Sussex in particular, is gaining this one seat."This new constituency of East Grinstead and Uckfield straddles the border between East and West Sussex and takes in voters who were previously in the constituencies of Mid Sussex, Horsham, Lewes and Sussex Weald (formerly known as Wealden).As long as they are registered, voters don’t need to do anything differently.But when they go to their usual polling stations on 4 July they will find themselves voting in a different constituency and their ballot papers are likely to contain names that are different to the ones they’re used to.
On the streets of the new constituency voters were very clear what their priorities were in this election. Elizabeth Johnson, from Uckfield, said: “I’m concerned about home ownership for young people. "No one wants green fields to be built on, but people need somewhere to live.”Emma Wall, from East Grinstead, said: “Healthcare is the biggest issue for me. "My friend was diagnosed with cancer but it was too late and had spread. "It’s now terminal. NHS services just aren’t there.”Helen Scott, from West Hoathly, said: “The biggest issue for me in this election? Two words. Pot holes! "The roads are terrible. They need looked at urgently.”
Your Voice, Your Vote will put your stories and questions at the heart of our general election coverage.Click the button below to submit your idea, and it could be featured on television, radio, BBC News Online, BBC Sounds and on social media.
Follow BBC Sussex on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk  or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250.
