A clean-up operation is continuing after large waves caused damage to the seafront in Stonehaven at the weekend.A risk to life warning was issued in the Aberdeenshire town on Saturday following high tides – with people advised to stay away.Sandbags were put in front of homes and businesses to try and prevent flooding. A large boulder was thrown into a seafront car park by the waves.Aberdeenshire Council asked members of the public to avoid impacted areas of the harbour and surrounding coastal roads until at least Wednesday.
Shale and rock from the beach was also forced on to the promenade and nearby roads.A retaining wall was damaged and sandbags were put out in a bid to soak up overspill and prevent the need to evacuate properties.
Julia Steggles,  from Stonehaven, was visiting the seafront with her nephews. "I do feel for all the businesses down here that have had to close," she told BBC Scotland News."It's hard, especially after the pandemic and everything. I feel for my community."
She said she had never seen the sea as rough."I have never seen the entire contents of the sea put onto the roads," she said."It's just been crazy."Bulldozers have been helping with the clean-up duties.
Also at the sea front was walker Joanne Van De Velden, who said she had to overcome "a few obstacles" in the aftermath.She said stormy weather "seems to be more and more common". "Insurance costs in the future will of course go up," she added.
Aberdeenshire Council said in a statement: "As a result of the high tides and strong onshore winds over the last 48 hours, a significant amount of wave overtopping occurred along the coast at Stonehaven, from the harbour northwards to Cowie.   "In the interests of public safety, the harbour area was closed and remains closed. Roads around the esplanade were also closed over the past two days.   "Clear-up of significant quantities of shingle and other debris is under way and will continue for the next day or so. During that time, we will carry out inspections to ascertain any damage to infrastructure around the harbour and along the promenade."The council added: "Members of public should avoid areas of the harbour and surrounding coastal roads until at least Wednesday this week to allow teams to remove debris and ensure a return to safe conditions.  "Do not travel to take photos or video of the area as it may result in further delays and endanger individuals, property, and vehicles. Should any areas remain unsafe, these will be barriered off and we ask that such barriers be respected by all."
