The man expected to become Ireland's new taoiseach (prime minister) has met Leo Varadkar, the current taoiseach, to discuss transition plans.
Simon Harris was confirmed as Mr Varadkar's successor as Fine Gael leader on Sunday.
The 37-year-old is now on course to become the country's youngest ever leader. 
Mr Varadkar announced on Wednesday he was stepping down.
Speaking after his party leadership was confirmed, Mr Harris said it was time for the party to "reset" under his leadership. 
He is not due to become taoiseach until the Oireachtas (Irish parliament) returns in April.
However, he met Mr Varadkar on Monday to discuss the transition of power.
He is expected to meet the other coalition party leaders, Micheál Martin and Eamon Ryan later this week.
Mr Harris ran for Fine Gael leadership unopposed and was supported by government ministers Helen McEntee, Paschal Donohoe and Heather Humphries. 
His party is in coalition government with Fianna Fáil and the Green Party, but a general election is due by March 2025.
Mr Harris said he wants the government to run a full term, indicating there will be no election any earlier than that year.
"We have a lot of work to do and I don't think there needs to be any mystique around my intentions," he said.
"I am planning for this government, should I be lucky enough to form one and to become taoiseach, I would like to see this government run full term. And that's my intention."
During the leadership convention Mr Harris said his party needs to focus on integrity, security, equality of opportunity and enterprise. 
He also said he believes public service and the power of politics can "make a difference" and "make people's lives better".
Mr Harris also hit out at Sinn Féin, the party seen as potentially Fine Gael's biggest electoral threat, stating it could not continue "denying reality". 
On Wednesday Mr Varadkar caused shock when he announced he would be stepping down as Fine Gael leader immediately, and would resign as taoiseach as soon as his successor was selected.
He said he was resigning for "personal and political reasons" and was "not the best person for the job anymore".
He also denied any "conspiracy theories" over the decision, telling reporters in Brussels there was no ulterior motive or new job on the cards.
Mr Varadkar's resignation paved the way for a party leadership contest but as he heads the current coalition government alongside Fianna Fáil and the Green Party in Dublin, his successor is also expected to take over as taoiseach.
