As one cricket-loving first minister takes over from another, a glance at the scoreboard will give you the result, but not the full match report.
Vaughan Gething has won, but there are still questions over the gameplan he used to get there.
In the end the outcome was what you'd expect from Welsh Labour MSs - they backed their man.
But not without a lot of pain, anger and disquiet behind the scenes over the donations made to Mr Gething's campaign by a man who owns a company twice convicted for environmental offences.
We know that some backbench Labour MSs met to discuss their concerns on Monday night.
It also now appears that at a routine meeting of the Welsh Labour group the following morning some MSs might have told Vaughan Gething directly that he should give the money back.
It wasn't denied by one of his supporters - Eluned Morgan - or one of Jeremy Miles's - Alun Davies on BBC Radio Wales on Wednesday morning.
In a sense winning the Senedd vote to become first minister isn't really the story, as the chances of any Labour MS abstaining or voting against Mr Gething were almost non-existent, despite the anger.  It's what happens next that will count.
There is a "sense of needing to move on" according to Ms Morgan, and of "turning the page" according to Mr Davies.
So they're clearly not happy with the place they're in.
Mr Gething has promised a review of campaign rules. Ms Morgan suggested it would look at the amount candidates can receive and who they receive it from.
The review is a bit after the event, but might form part of a clean-up operation.
Plenty of Labour MSs are concerned about what's happened even if they've now rallied round.
What work does the new FM need to do to bring them back on board? How does he strike that balance between rewarding his supporters and giving those of Mr Miles top jobs?
What does he offer Mr Miles? A source close to Mr Gething says he is bound to be offered a big job. 
What does Mr Miles accept?
And as Mr Gething gets to work under difficult circumstances - before he even gets on to things like NHS strikes and waiting lists, farmers protests and steel jobs - how long will the disgruntlement last?
There are questions for some of Mr Miles's supporters too.
If they thought that the donations just weren't cricket, why didn't they say so publicly during the campaign itself?
The contest to become next Welsh Labour leader turned out to be incredibly close.
We'll never know what might have happened had more people pitched in with their criticism during the contest, and not after.
