The South East has seen some of the highest temperatures ever recorded in the UK, as the heatwave continues. 
In Charlwood, Surrey, a provisional temperature of 39.1C (102.4F) was reached just before midday, which was at that time the hottest ever recorded in the UK.
An hour later it was beaten by Heathrow Airport at 40.2C (104.4F) and later by 40.3C (104.5F) in Lincolnshire.
The previous record was 38.7C (101.7F) in Cambridge in 2019. 
Official figures later given by the Met Office said Charlwood reached 39.9C (103.8F) and Wisley recorded 39.3C (102.7F).
It comes as parts of north Kent and Surrey face an extreme heat warning, meaning a risk to health. 
The mercury also tipped the scale in Faversham, Kent, where temperatures of 38.9C (102F) were recorded. 
Meanwhile, some residents in two Kent villages have no water or low pressure for a fourth day.
A bottled water station at Challock Village Hall reopened for people in Challock and Molash, some of whom have been without water since Saturday.
Resident Angel Johnston claimed pumping stations had been unable to cope, and said the small villages on top of the Downs were considered "not that important".
She said villagers were hauling about two-litre bottles of water, unable to shower or use washcloths, and toilets were "a nightmare".
South East Water said on Monday it had been working to refill the local network.
Richard Sands, South East Water incident manager, apologised and said: "Due to a continued surge in demand, supplies will likely remain intermittent throughout the rest of today."
He said additional water was being redirected, the bottled water station at Challock remained open, and customers were being provided with grab bags to fill and use to flush toilets.
The water company also said residents in Bolney and Warninglid, near Haywards Heath, West Sussex, had seen water supplies return after "a power outage beyond our control" affected its ability to provide water to the area.
In Sussex, Ardingly Reservoir is increasing security patrols to stop the public cooling-off there. 
South East Water said it has repeatedly given out warnings about the dangers of swimming in reservoirs after seeing a number of large gatherings at its reservoirs over the weekend. 
Chris Lunn, head of health, safety and quality at the company, said: "Reservoirs may seem like a good place to swim or cool down but they can contain hidden dangers which are not always obvious from the bankside.
"Our advice is never to swim at any reservoir unless it is a part of an organised event where the risks are suitably low and first aiders are in place."
Visitors to Ashdown Forest in East Sussex have been urged not to have barbeques and to take litter home with them, as well as being "extra vigilant" to wildfires. 
Ash Walmsley, countryside manager for the forest, said: "The forest is really susceptible to wildfires because of the habitat that we're in. 
"The heathland with its heather and gorse can easily ignite during these hot weather conditions. We're asking people to really stick by the by-laws and report any fires."  
Rail travel is also continuing to be affected by the soaring temperatures. 
Southern Rail urged passengers not to travel unless absolutely necessary. 
In a statement on Twitter, the operator said it was running a "significantly reduced service" with some routes completely suspended. 
Follow BBC South East on Facebook, on Twitter, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk. 
