Two councils will consider a proposal to increase tax premiums for owners of second homes and empty properties.
Babergh and Mid Suffolk district councils said the change would help bring empty properties back into use.
The tax bill for owners of properties that have been empty and unfurnished for one year could double, and quadruple if empty for 10 years.
Green councillor Jessie Carter said: "It's unacceptable that houses are standing empty without valid reason."
The councils already impose a tax premium for properties left empty and unfurnished for two years or longer, but local authorities can reduce that deadline from April 2024 onward under new government legislation taking effect.
There are almost 600 empty properties in Babergh and more than 680 in Mid Suffolk, according to a joint council statement.
"Each empty property is a potential home, and we must encourage owners to bring them back in to use to help relieve the pressure on existing housing stock," continued Ms Carter, the cabinet member for housing at Babergh District Council.
Richard Winch, Green councillor and cabinet member for housing and property at Mid Suffolk District Council, added: "Empty homes blight neighbourhoods and can attract antisocial behaviour and crime. 
"Anyone who leaves a home empty for more than a year will pay double the council tax, three times the council tax for more than five years, and four times the council tax for more than 10 years.
"The idea really is to give people a bit of a nudge who've got empty homes to work with us proactively to get them back onto the rental market."
Mr Winch explained there would be exceptions, including if owners served in the military or if an owner was "genuinely trying to sell the property".
If the proposals were accepted, the owners of 576 second homes in Babergh and 542 in Mid Suffolk would see their council tax bill double from April 2025.
Ms Carter said the councils wanted to "ensure that those who choose to own second homes make a higher contribution to local services at a time when they are under pressure".
According to the councils, the plan could raise up to £2m.
The proposals will be discussed by both cabinets on 9 January.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
