WICHITA, Kan. (AP) — The Latest on a California man who pleaded guilty to making 
a hoax call
 that led police to fatally shoot a Kansas man (all times local):
1:05 p.m.
Kansas authorities are dropping involuntary manslaughter and other state charges against a California man who was sentenced in federal court to 20 years in prison for a hoax emergency call that led to a Wichita man’s death.
Sedgwick County District Attorney Marc Bennett said Friday he will dismiss the state charges because Tyler Barriss would be getting more prison time in the federal case than in state court. Barriss was sentenced on 51 federal charges related to fake calls and threats, the most serious one for making a false report resulting in the death of Andrew Finch.
Finch’s sister, Dominica Finch, says Barriss got what he deserved. The family wants to see police also be held accountable. Finch was unarmed when an officer responding to a bogus kidnapping call shot him.
Barriss apologized to Finch’s family in court Friday. He said he takes full responsibility for what happened.
11:15 a.m.
A California man has been sentenced to 20 years in prison for a hoax call that led police to fatally shoot an unarmed Kansas man following a dispute between two people over $1.50 bet in a “Call of Duty: WWII” video game.
Twenty-six-year-old Tyler R. Barriss was sentenced Friday. He 
pleaded guilty
 in November to 51 charges related to fake calls and threats, the most serious one for making a false report resulting in a death. Officers who responded shot a Wichita man who opened the door at the former address of a gamer involved in the dispute.

        
    
 
Prosecutors
 sought a sentence of 25 years. The 
defense
 sought 20.
The case drew attention to the practice of “swatting,” a form of retaliation used by gamers and others get police to descend on an address.
8:45 a.m.
A California man faces decades in prison when he’s sentenced for making hoax emergency calls, including one that led police to fatally shoot a Kansas man.
Tyler R. Barriss will be sentenced Friday in federal court in Wichita, Kansas. The 26-year-old man has pleaded guilty to 51 charges related to fake calls and threats under an agreement calling for at least 20 years in prison. His case drew national attention to the practice of “swatting,” a form of retaliation gamers and others use to get police to go to an someone’s address.
One of Barriss’ calls led to the death of 28-year-old Andrew Finch, who was not playing video games. Barriss’ call followed a dispute between two other people over a $1.50 bet in “Call of Duty: WWII.”
