Police in Kansas have made their first arrest in connection with a stolen statue of iconic baseball player Jackie Robinson.
The Wichita Police Department said it arrested 45-year-old Ricky Alderte and charged him with felony theft. 
The bronze statue, which stood at a park in Wichita, was cut at the ankles and hauled off in a truck last month.
Its theft was met by outcry from community members, who have since raised money to replace it.
Robinson, who played for the Brooklyn Dodgers, made history as the first black player in MLB, paving the way for generations of African American ball players. 
Police announced the arrest of Mr Alderte on Tuesday. In addition to a charge of felony theft, he faces three other counts of identity theft, aggravated criminal damage to property and providing false information.
The statue was stolen from McAdams Park, home to League 42, a youth baseball league named after Robinson's jersey number. The park is also known for recognising influential African Americans.
Police lieutenant Aaron Moses said there is no evidence that indicates the theft of the statue is a hate crime. Rather, he said it appears the suspect was looking to make money. 
"We believe this theft was motivated by the financial gain of scrapping common metal," Mr Moses said. 
Police also released surveillance video of the theft that "at least two people" ripping down the statue before driving it away in a Brown pick-up truck. 
Bob Lutz, the director of League 42, told reporters that he welcomed the arrest of a suspect. 
"I do believe that all individuals involved will be apprehended," Mr Lutz added. 
Shortly after the theft, officials told the local ABC channel that parts of the statue were found burned at another park in Wichita. 
"We are no longer looking for a complete and intact statue,"said Wichita city council member Brandon Johnson. "We know now that we need to raise the money to replace it and we will do so."
Nearly $200,000 (£159,000) was raised by community members through an online fundraiser, and Major League Baseball (MLB), North America's professional baseball league, has since offered to replace it. 
The new statue is expected to be completed by the summer, Mr Lutz has said. 
