A chef has described how he overhauled his lifestyle after surviving a "widow-maker heart attack".
Sat Bains, who has a Michelin-starred restaurant in Nottingham, suffered a heart attack three years ago.
The "widow-maker" heart attack is considered one of the deadliest, and occurs when the left anterior descending (LAD) artery leaving the heart becomes completely blocked.
Mr Bains said: "I had to relearn everything that I thought I knew."
But he added: "Since it happened, I've been on an incredibly life-changing, mental and physical journey." 
Aged in his 50s, Mr Bains said he "knew his cholesterol was an issue" and, as a gym-goer, following a keto diet, he was sure he was healthy.
After feeling chest pain during a workout, the pain then spread to his arm and jaw during a walk around Wollaton Park with his wife.
He dialled 999, and was sent to Nottingham's City Hospital for an emergency operation.
After 10 days at the hospital, Mr Bains was discharged, weighing 17kg (2st 9lb) lighter than when he arrived.
On the heart attack, he said: "I'd ruptured one artery, and blocked most of the others, so just two or three millilitres of blood were pumping through one artery. I just didn't think it would happen to me.
"The doctor told my wife Amanda, you're very lucky because he should have died this morning. It was that close."
After leaving hospital, Mr Bains said he struggled to walk, had no appetite, and realised he needed to overhaul his diet and lifestyle.
He said he still eats red meat - just not as often - and has swapped out his 200g bars of Dairy Milk to a "couple of Freddos a week".
He thanked all the staff at City Hospital who cared for him.
"I feel very lucky that I'm still here - and I intend to make the most of it - and that means making sure I maintain a healthy lifestyle," he said.
Jacob Chacko, consultant cardiac surgeon at Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, said: "Despite the name, widow-makers can affect both men and women, with common risk factors including smoking, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes, and a family history of heart disease."
Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook, on X, or on Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2210.
