Holiday cheer is in short supply this year in Dickinson, a town battered by Hurricane Harvey, with many residents still displaced from their homes and dozens of businesses shuttered. But a popular toy drive and a million-dollar check from the state government went a long way towards giving a handful of those affected a Merry Christmas.
On the same day that Gov. Greg Abbott presented Dickinson Mayor Julie Masters a $1.25 million check for Harvey debris removal, the Dickinson Police Department hosted its annual Blue Santa toy drive, a welcome respite for parents scrambling to find money for Christmas gifts while also dealing with not having a roof over their heads.
This year, 281 families registered for the toy drive, providing gifts for more than 743 children.
“It means more than you can possibly imagine,” Masters said. “I think they have more families than ever signed up this year.”
Esther Montalvano, a records clerk for the Dickinson Police Department who has helped run Blue Santa for the last 9 years, said that they have more toys than they know what to do with this year, owing to the massive influx of donations after Harvey.
“Due to the fact that we have had so many backers and sponsors, we’ve had people as far away as New Jersey, Louisiana, Houston, Austin, Stafford, that have been sending us toys,” Montalvo said.
A trickle of families, the majority of whom are Latino, showed up at the Police Department on Wednesday afternoon to collect their blue trash bags full of toys.

        
    
One woman, Claudia, a mother of three, had a look of relief on her face as she carried out a brand new tricyle for her 3-year old son.
Claudia, who asked that her last name not be used, went into premature labor with twin girls when Harvey made landfall. The day after she was discharged, Claudia suffered an infection from her C-section, forcing her to drive back to the hospital through flooded streets, yellow fluid leaking out of her stomach from the infection.
The brunt of the storm passed through Dickinson while Claudia was being treated for her infection, destroying the trailer she and her husband shared, and forcing her to move in with her parents, newborn babies in tow.
“I had a lot of trees around my trailer and one of them fell on my trailer,” Claudia said. “One of my rooms is completely lost and I’m just waiting on FEMA to help me. They gave me $400 but it’s not enough to fix my house.”
While the $1.25 million check handed out by Gov. Abbott won’t necessarily help Claudia and other displaced families return to their homes, Mayor Masters said it would go a long way towards covering the city’s budget for debris removal. The check is part of an agreement where the federal government picks up 90 percent of the tab for debris removal, with the remaining 10 percent covered by the affected county or locality. The $1.25 million check to Dickinson is half of the 10 percent covered by the state.
Abbott said on Wednesday that the state’s legislative leaders had agreed that the state should cover that 10 percent, with many county and city budgets already stretched thin.
“One thing that we know is the cities and counties have been impacted fiscally in a very, very profound way,” Abbott said. “Today we are beginning to take the next step to assist the cities in their financial needs.”
Staring at the check in disbelief, Masters was grateful the state delivered on its promise, but noted that federal checks have been slower to come in and that many Dickinson residents are spending the holidays elsewhere while their homes sit in disrepair.
“It’s just slow and I just feel for those folks that are not back in their homes, especially the ones with kids,” Masters said. “Who wants to put up a Christmas tree in a hotel room?”
That was the exact situation facing Aida, a mother of three who also did not want her full name published. She drove to the Blue Santa giveaway from a hotel in Texas City where she and her husband moved their family after Harvey flooded her home. Her eyes welling up with tears, Aida described how her son was disappointed they would not be able to have a Christmas tree this year. After recently paying a visit to their damaged home, Aida was able to salvage enough space to set up a small Christmas tree. Her husband and son decorated the house with lights.
Aida has been waiting months for a loan to start rebuilding their home, only receiving a $400 check from FEMA since the storm hit. Still, in what has been an excruciating three months, she is grateful for the little things: a blue trash bag filled with toys, and the health of her family.
“I never thought it would take this long, we think like 2 or 3 weeks they fix everything,” Aida said. “But I need to be strong, my kids need me, all my family is fine so I’m good.”
