A Lincolnshire agricultural student is to be one of the first to benefit from a bursary launched by Kaleb Cooper, star of TV's Clarkson's Farm.
Caitlyn Bartlett, 19, from Brothertoft, near Boston, is one of two students to be awarded the £3,000 grant.
The money is awarded to students at the Gloucestershire Royal Agricultural University in Cirencester.
Ms Bartlett said the bursary would "really help open many different opportunities for me".
The bursary provides cash to help support students who want to explore different paths to agriculture, as well as offering the chance to take part in a work placement with Mr Cooper himself.
Ms Bartlett, a first year student studying for a BSc in Agriculture, said: "Coming from a non-farming background, it can be challenging to enter an industry that is often based on what contacts you have.
"So, I was really pleased to have been selected as one of the bursary winners.
"This bursary will not only help me to gain further vital industry experience and knowledge through the work placement with Kaleb, but will really help open up many different opportunities for me in the future within the agricultural sector." 
As part of the bursary, Ms Bartlett has already spent a day with Mr Cooper and Caitlin Oxton, 20, the other student awarded a grant, at a livestock auction where he was bidding to buy calves for his farm in Chipping Norton.
Mr Cooper, who has been involved in farming since he was 12 years old, said he was happy the award had gone to a student who, like him, came from a non-farming background.
He said farming had "saved" him and it was "who I am".
"Encouraging the younger generation into agriculture has always been so important to me," he added.
Ms Bartlett said unlike many of those she was studying alongside, she was "starting from scratch".
"It's definitely harder, but if you've got the drive, I think it'll be fine," she said.
"You've just got to be really motivated. It's definitely the career path for me."
Follow BBC East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
