INDIANAPOLIS (AP) — Simon Pagenaud has been one of the busiest drivers in Indianapolis all week.
Somewhere between the seemingly endless media requests and all those extra sponsor appearances, he found enough time to squeeze in team meetings, and revel in the spoils of last year’s IndyCar victory in the inaugural Grand Prix of Indianapolis. Now, the defending champ can finally get back to the best part of his job: Time in the car he drives for Roger Penske’s powerhouse team.
“You tend to enjoy it (driving) more because you work so hard to knock out those interviews,” Pagenaud said before practice on Thursday on the 14-turn road course. “When you’re in the race car, you’re alone, and you concentrate on racing.”
Of course, he’d rather be busy than idle.
But for the 31-year-old Frenchman with a world of racing experience, this month at Indianapolis is making him feel like a first-timer.
When Indy fans last saw Pagenaud, he was trying to deliver a breakthrough win for one of IndyCar’s up-and-coming teams, Schmidt Peterson Hamilton Motorsports.
This time, he’s working for one of the top teams that already has a three-time Indianapolis 500 champion (Helio Castroneves), the defending series champ (Will Power), and a seven-time Formula One winner who also happened to win the 500 in 2000 (Juan Pablo Montoya). Each has learned to cope with the spotlight of Indianapolis, where victories and mistakes are magnified, and there’s no respite from the obligations.
It’s Pagenaud’s turn to get the crash course this year.

        
    
On Wednesday, a day off for most drivers, Pagenaud spent most of the day at the track doing interviews, then signed autographs for sponsor guests in the team’s hospitality tent. After that, there was the track walk, and another signing session — all before Thursday’s first road-course practice for Saturday’s race. After finishing sixth on the speed chart, he picked up his winner’s ring from last year.
“I realized this week, for sure,” Pagenaud said when reflecting on how big the win actually was. “I didn’t realize it last year because I took it (the grand prix) as just another race. Now I do understand, and it’s really such a sweet feeling.”
Gil de Ferran, who won the 2003 Indy 500 while driving for Team Penske, tried telling Pagenaud about the time demands that would be placed on him. Castroneves, one of only two foreign-born drivers with three 500 wins, tried to help, too.
But it didn’t sink in until Pagenaud started talking about his personal schedule, which made Castroneves chuckle.
“I see him running around more often, saying ‘I have a lot of commitments,’” Castroneves said. “I said ‘Actually, we cut it back a lot.’ I think now he understands that when you’re the defending race champion, how many more appointments you have.”
Drivers are scheduled to be on the track for 10 of the next 11 days. The only day off is Sunday, when teams will turn their focus to the end-of-the-month Indianapolis 500, and workers start converting the track back to its more traditional oval course.
With Saturday’s race looming, the only man to hold the grand prix trophy wants to keep it that way.
“I’m here to win, I have the team to win and I have everything I need to win,” Pagenaud said. “Coming back here with all those ingredients, my statistical chances are very high for doing it again.”
