For two nights, Joseph Cotton lived in his gold 2002 Pontiac Grand Am.
The senior West Orange-Stark football player drove it home from Iowa, Louisiana, after Tropical Storm Harvey, thinking he would have a place to stay. When he arrived in Orange, he found his family home, his grandmother’s home and his great-grandmother’s home uninhabitable because of flooding.
With no options, he parked his car in the driveway of his grandmother’s home and slept in it.
A month after Harvey, Cotton and his family still don’t live at home. Instead, he lives with a friend in Orange, and most of his family is spread across Southwest Louisiana.
Even as games and classes have resumed, football players throughout Southeast Texas remain distracted by fluid, imperfect living situations created by Harvey’s flooding.
Some, like Cotton, are away from family. Others live in temporary housing with relatives.
“You leave practice and get that nice feeling inside you that you’re going home,” Cotton said. “That’s just not how it is for a lot of us anymore.”
Relatively difficult conditions
Cotton returned to Orange quicker than his family and teammates to get back to his part-time job at Walmart. His family home had about two feet of water inside while relatives’ houses received similar damage.
“The water was up to my waist,” Cotton said.
His teammate, senior Davien Teate, lives with his grandparents in Mauriceville. Teate’s parents stay with his aunt in Fannett, so he doesn’t see them often. His home took on a foot and a half of water during Harvey.

        
    
“It’s hard, but at least I’ve got my grandparents right now,” Teate said. “Just having that maternal and paternal presence has really helped me.”
Hardin-Jefferson’s Mason Murray, like Teate, has been mostly separated from family since Harvey. His home in Bevil Oaks had seven feet of water, and the family evacuated to College Station. They stayed for a week until returning to the area to assess damage and make living arrangements.
Murray has been living with the family of his quarterback, Brayden Pelt, on FM 421 north of Bevil Oaks. He will stay there until his family can move into a temporary apartment.
Murray didn’t see his mother, who lives with relatives, during the entire week leading up to the Hawks’ season opener on Sept. 22.
“The first time I saw my mom that week was at the pep rally on Friday,” Murray said. “Just seeing her lifted my spirits.”
Dillon Bryant, a teammate of Murray’s, lives with his family in two RVs outside their Pinewood home, which had three feet of water damage. Bryant said one of the more difficult parts of the setup is being so close to home, yet it feeling so distant.
Port Arthur Memorial’s Braydon Williams and his family live in a setup similar to Bryant’s. Williams’ family lives in a trailer outside their Port Arthur home, which took on several feet of water.
“I’m just grateful I’ve got a pillow to rest my head on every night,” Williams said. “Everything has been thrown so out of whack the last month.”
Increased health risks
Vidor coach Jeff Mathews said one of his concerns after Harvey was displaced players’ ability to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Many of his 58 varsity players live away from family or in unfamiliar situations because of the storm.
Mathews has dealt with this firsthand since his home had six feet of water.
“It’s not easy to sleep well or eat right or do anything,” Mathews said. “There are so many different things you’re thinking about when your home and life aren’t normal.”
Hardin-Jefferson coach Jared Sloan reminds his players every day to eat healthy and hydrate properly, but it’s a difficult to live consistently when life lacks consistency.
Bryant missed a week of practice because he was helping his family clean out their house.
When the Hawks scrimmaged Mathews’ Pirates in mid-September, it was a struggle for Bryant.
“I was so exhausted and out of shape,” Bryant said. “My legs were like wheelbarrows out there. It wasn’t even running.”
Cotton dealt with the same issues, especially with food. He initially got his food from American Red Cross - he liked the fruit cups - but has mainly lived off fast food since Harvey.
“I’ve been OK on the field for the most part,” Cotton said. “It was definitely difficult those first few days, but I’m in good shape now.”
For many displaced players, daily life has posed its challenges.
Teate’s commute time to school and practice doubled since he has lived in Mauriceville.
Murray hasn’t been tasked with many chores and the Pelts have been close family friends for a while, but he wants to live with his family again.
He lives out of a duffel bag and isn’t at the house much because of football.
“All I’ve got to do is make sure I put my socks inside out for laundry day,” Murray said. “It’s a little different than living at home, but I’m managing.”
What happens next?
Many displaced football players will not be able to live in their homes until long after the football season is over.
Murray doesn’t expect his family to move back to Bevil Oaks for six to nine months - if they decide to move back. He said his family is close to moving into an apartment in Beaumont.
Bryant said he expects to live in the RVs for another six months.
“Everything gets better,” Bryant said. “It’s a slow process and one I don’t think a lot of people see, but it’s happening.”
Williams was told his family would move back into his home by Thanksgiving, but he’s skeptical.
“I just don’t know how realistic that is honestly,” Williams said. “I want it to happen but I just don’t know.”
Teate and his family hope to move into the upstairs part of their house soon, and Cotton doesn’t have a timetable for moving home.
“There’s more to our lives than what’s seen on the football field,” Teate said. “Football is big and we like playing it and feeling normal, but our lives are more than that right now.”
[email protected]
/DannyShapiro13
