Black Rod plays a key role in the State Opening of Parliament, which took place on Wednesday 17 July.
The House of Lords official liaises between the upper chamber and the House of Commons during a number of important Parliamentary events. 
Black Rod is one of the most senior officers in the House of Lords, and participates in major ceremonial events in the Palace of Westminster. 
Their full title is Lady or Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod.
Sarah Clarke was appointed Lady Usher of the Black Rod in November 2017, formally taking up the role in February 2018.
She is the first female holder of the position in its 650-year history.
Black Rod's role in the State Opening of Parliament is one of the most well-known moments in the parliamentary calendar. 
After being sent from the House of Lords, Black Rod knocks on the door of the House of Commons, to summon MPs for the King's Speech. 
Traditionally, the door of the Commons is slammed in Black Rod's face. 
He or she then has to knock three times on the door with the rod to gain entry, before it is opened and MPs follow Black Rod back to the upper chamber.
The refusal to let Black Rod enter at the first knock is widely believed to symbolise the Commons' independence from the Crown. 
However, Erskine May, the "bible" of parliamentary procedure, says the custom is to allow the Commons to establish Black Rod's identity. 
Black Rod also plays a key role in the selection of the House of Commons Speaker. They summon MPs to the House of Lords to receive the King's instructions to appoint the Speaker.
As well as organising ceremonial events, Black Rod - who can earn up to £93,000 a year - manages a team of 30 staff involved in the day-to-day running of the House of Lords.
Their deputy is called the Yeoman Usher of the Black Rod. 
The title Black Rod comes from the ebony staff, topped with a golden lion, carried by the holder.
The earliest known reference to "the Usher to the Order of the Garter" is in letters patent - a written order from a monarch granting an office, right or title to an individual - from 1361.
There are thought to have been 60 holders of the position since then.
Black Rod's uniform consists of black shoes, buckles, breeches and a coat, as well as silk stockings. 
The position of Black Rod also exists in Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
Ms Clarke was previously in charge of organising the Wimbledon tennis championships.
Prior to that, she worked for the London Marathon, UK Sport, and on four Olympic Games - including London 2012.
Accepting the role of Black Rod in 2017, she said: "I am both deeply honoured and delighted to be invited to take up the role."
She said the House of Lords was "a place where the smallest detail is as important as the big picture and the depth of heritage and tradition is second to none".
