STAMFORD — The family of a slain drug dealer pleaded for a judge to show “compassion” for the fugitive who spent 26 years on the run after admitting to the killing.
Christopher Williams, now a 44-year-old grandfather, was given a significantly reduced sentenced of six years in prison for the 1990 killing of Kevin “Trick” Harrison.
Williams faced 12 years for manslaughter plus another five years for failing to show up at the original sentencing, but Judge Gary White considered the impassioned plea from the victim’s family.
“For the record, we are here today under dark circumstances, one life lost and another with uncertainty,” Wayne Harrison, the victim’s oldest brother, read from a letter to the judge.
Harrison said his family loved his brother, but knows he engaged in an “undesirable lifestyle.”
“We ask the court for the sake of Christ to show compassion and be merciful here today for the sake of his wife, children and grandchildren,” Harrison said.
In January 1989, the 16-year-old Williams hatched a plan with his cousin and a friend to rob a Stamford dealer and sell the drugs in Bridgeport.
The three found the 25-year-old Harrison at the corner of Ann and West Main streets and made a deal to purchase cocaine. Williams pulled out a gun to scare Harrison, but he claimed the dealer put his hands up and caused the gun to fire.
State Police apprehended the group a short time later and Williams confessed to the killing.

        
    
Williams, who was living in Bridgeport, did not have a criminal record and pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter and was going to be sentenced to 12 years in jail.
However, Williams never showed up for his sentencing and remained on the run until he was found last year in Pennsylvania, where he owned a restaurant under a new identity and was married with two grown children.
His capture was aided by the U.S. Marshals Service, which began searching for him in 2015 when one of Harrison’s brothers pleaded for Williams to be apprehended so his dieing mother could see justice.
During his sentencing last week, Williams apologized to the Harrison family. Williams, who had a dozen family and friends supporting him in the courtroom, also thanked the family for their forgiveness.
“Everyone was positively influenced by the incredible compassion exhibited by the Harrison family,” said Williams’ attorney, John Gulash. “And that along with his own personal story combined to result in the ultimate sentence.”
The judge also included an 11-year suspended sentence and a five-year conditional release. Williams, who has been jailed since his arrest last year, could be released in five or fewer years.
“In this case, we had an opportunity to see what the defendant would become. He became a productive member of society, despite what he did,” Stamford State’s Attorney Richard Colangelo said. “I believe the sentence is just in this situation.”
[email protected]
;
