People living near the site of a proposed asphalt plant in North Yorkshire have met their MP to reiterate their concern over the plans.
The facility is to be built near the A1(M) at Allerton Waste Recovery Park, near Knaresborough.
Campaign group Communities Against Toxins met MP Andrew Jones to protest about pollution from the site. 
Tynedale Roadstone Ltd said it would make sure emissions from the plant were kept at the correct levels. 
It said modern plants to produce asphalt - the material used to repair roads - have extensive filtration systems that can monitor and maintain emissions.
But Michael Elmsley, from Communities Against Toxins, said the asphalt plant would stand about 30m tall, and would produce "volatile" chemicals which would be released into the air. 
His campaign group met Mr Jones, the Conservative MP for Harrogate and Knaresborough, at Marton Memorial Hall to express their fears. 
They said more than 600 residents have now joined them as they plan to lobby North Yorkshire Council and demand the application is rejected.
Mr Jones said: "We've already seen quite significant development here, I'm thinking particularly of the incinerator. 
"When that was built we were told that was it. We weren't going to see industrial development creep up and down that road. Well this is breaking that principle."
Emma Mortimer, who lives near the site, said: "We are very very worried about the impact it is going to have on people's health, and on people's children. 
"There is definitely a concern for people who have asthma." 
Tynedale Roadstone said the development "will support sustainable growth in North Yorkshire and is crucial to facilitating and servicing highway works and projects in the area". 
It said in a statement: "The installation of the proposed asphalt plant at Allerton Park will be a brand-new state-of-the-art facility that will meet stringent environmental, noise and emission criteria in the asphalt production process. 
"Modern asphalt plants have extensive process filtration systems used with clean fuels to constantly maintain and monitor all the emissions from the production processes and ensure that they are kept within the correct protocol."
North Yorkshire County Council is expected to make a decision on the plans next year. 
Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
