Three men are in hospital and 12 arrests have been made following a "serious disturbance" that has led to the closure of a busy Cardiff road.
Officers used stop and search powers on Wentloog Avenue, which includes Shirenewton travellers' site, to "avoid further violence".
The men were arrested on suspicion of violent disorder, assault and possession of offensive weapons.
Wentloog Avenue, which links Newport and Cardiff, was shut both ways.
South Wales Police believe those involved are known to each other.
Officers were initially called to reports of an assault on Sunday at 16:00 GMT.
A 27-year-old man received "potentially life-changing injuries" while the two other men, aged 25 and 55, were also taken to hospital with serious injuries, police said.
A number of weapons have been recovered and forensic teams are at the scene.
A Section 60 Notice, which gives officers the power to search anyone in a specific area, was put in until 17:00 GMT on Monday.
It was later extended for a further 24 hours and will remain in place until 17:00 on Tuesday.
"The notice was imposed following a serious disturbance. It will remain in place while enquiries continue with the intention of preventing further violence," said the force.
"Please avoid the area and use alternative routes."
Earlier, a resident of the site who did not want to be named expressed his frustration about the Section 60 notice.
"They won't let us in. I've just finished a night shift and I want to get some breakfast and kip," he said.
"The family have got no milk or bread or anything and they won't even let us drop food for them. It's a disgrace."
Colette Hume, BBC News
A steady stream of cars and flatbed trucks trying to enter the site have been turned away.
Three South Wales Police response vans entered the site shortly before 11:00 GMT.
The road adjacent to the roundabout at the site was closed. An officer with a Taser together with another PC and a PCSO have been talking to residents about the order.
A second police cordon was created about 600m up the road, close to the entrance of the site.
