A story about a boy who was surprised with a teddy that has hearing aids was among our most read this week in Hampshire and on the Isle of Wight.
A variety of local issues featured on the BBC News website, BBC Radio Solent and South Today. 
We have picked five stories to keep you up to date. 
British yacht Maiden crossed the finish line off Cowes after a 27,000-mile race around the globe.
Maiden and the crew of 12 women powered towards the finish line off the island finishing the gruelling race shortly before 12:00 BST on Tuesday.
The Ocean Globe Race (OGR) marks the 50th anniversary of the first Whitbread round-the-world race in 1973.
The race saw 14 yachts set off from the Royal Yacht Squadron in Cowes on 10 September at 13:00 BST.
A 16-year-old boy has been jailed for seven years for plotting a terror attack after researching the Isle of Wight Festival as a potential target.
The teenager from Cowes on the Isle of Wight, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was planning to attack people he believed had insulted Islam.
He also shared terrorist publications with others, Counter Terrorism Policing South East (CTPSE) said.
He was found guilty in February of preparation of terrorist acts.
A boy who lost his hearing in both ears during cancer treatment has been surprised with a specially made teddy.
Thomas was given the toy, based on his favourite Marvel character Black Panther, which has hand-sewn hearing aids attached - like the ones he wears.
It was created by audiologist Ruth Avierinos who wants to "reduce the stigma around hearing conditions".
Thomas attends preschool at the Elizabeth Foundation at Queen Alexandra Hospital in Portsmouth.
Southampton residents waiting for their bins to be collected have called it a "nightmare" with rubbish blowing across the streets.
Over 10,000 bins were uncollected in the city in March, which was down from the almost 15,000 missed in February.
Waste and recycling collections in the area have faced disruption following changes to shift patterns and safety practices introduced in January.
The council says it is prioritising collecting bulky and household waste.
A peregrine falcon has laid two eggs at Winchester Cathedral and experts expect to see more.
Mel, who took over as the site's resident female falcon in March after the previous bird Winnie was found dead, laid one egg on 12 April and one on 14 April.
Keith Betton, chair of the Hampshire Ornithological Society, said normally peregrines lay up to four eggs.
He added that any fledglings should hatch in May.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2240.
