Owners of American XL bully dogs in Scotland who wish to keep their animal must register for an exemption before 31 July. 
Strict rules about ownership of the dogs are already in force across England and Wales, and will take full effect in Scotland and Northern Ireland later in 2024.
However, there have been a number of attacks involving the dogs, some fatal, since the laws were put in place.
An XL bully is the largest kind of American bully dog. 
The UK government published guidance to help identify XL bullies, which are not recognised as a specific breed.
They are described as large dogs "with a muscular body and blocky head, suggesting great strength and power for [their] size".
Male XL dogs stand from 20in (51cm) high at the shoulder, with female XLs only slightly smaller.
There are no official figures for the number of XL bullies in the UK, but dogs are considered XLs if they meet the minimum height and a substantial number of other characteristics.
NHS consultant Richard Baker said the dogs' powerful jaws inflict more damaging wounds than those of other breeds, resulting in broken bones, shredded skin and damaged nerves.
"It's a crushing or a tearing injury," he said. "Once they grip, they don't let go."
According to the latest figures from the Office for National Statistics, there were 16 deaths as a result of dog attacks in the first nine months of 2023, compared to six in the whole of 2022. 
However, official figures do not break down the number of attacks or deaths by type of dog. 
When the previous government announced the XL bully ban for England and Wales in late 2023, it said the breed had been "disproportionately involved" in deaths recorded since 2021.
In several cases, XL bullies are known to have killed their owners, including Angeline Mahal, who was in her 50s, in May. 
Other people killed by XL bullies include 68-year-old Esther Martin, 54-year-old Ian Langley, 52-year-old Ian Price, 65-year-old Ann Dunn, 17-month-old Bella-Rae Birch and 10-year-old Jack Lis.
In total, there were more than 9,200 hospital admissions for dog bites in England in 2022-23, according to the latest full-year NHS data.
This was up slightly from 8,700 the previous year, but over the past decade as a whole, dog bite admissions have risen by nearly 50%. 
According to the latest data from the Ministry of Justice, 695 people were prosecuted in 2023 for allowing a dog to injure another person in England and Wales. There were 570 convictions. 
There are no official statistics on how many people have been prosecuted in England and Wales since the ban on unregistered XL bullies came into force in February. 
Ownership of American bully XL dogs is restricted under the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991. 
Since 31 December 2023, it has been against the law to sell, give away, abandon or breed from an XL bully.
Since 1 February 2024, it has been a criminal offence to own an XL bully without an exemption certificate.
The government said it received 61,000 exemption applications before the deadline.
Anyone choosing not to keep their XL bully had to take it to a registered vet to be euthanised by 31 January 2024.
As at 22 April 2024, the government said it had processed 395 valid euthanasia compensation claims, at a cost of £76,500. 
Owners who applied for an exemption had to buy insurance, microchip their dog and pay a £92.40 fee per animal. 
Registered dogs must be housed securely, and kept on a lead and muzzled in public - but not at home. 
Older dogs also had to be neutered by 30 June, or by the end of 2024 for dogs under the age of one.
Police can seize unregistered prohibited dogs, and their owners face up to six months in jail and/or an unlimited fine. 
Since 23 February, American XL bullies have to be muzzled and kept on a lead in public.
It is illegal to abandon, rehome, sell, buy, or transfer ownership of an XL bully.
Anyone who breaks the rules risks up to six months in prison and/or a fine of up to £5,000. 
Owners who wish to keep their dogs have to apply online for an exemption by 31 July 2024. Paper applications have now closed.  
The requirements for exempt XL bully owners in Scotland mirror those in England and Wales. 
All dogs in Northern Ireland must be licensed and microchipped at eight weeks old. 
Since 5 July, American XL bullies have had to be muzzled and kept on a lead in public.
It is illegal to abandon, rehome, sell, buy, or transfer ownership of an XL bully. Dogs must be housed securely.
Owners who wish to keep an XL bully must register for an exemption by 31 December 2024.
Further details on how to apply will be published before the deadline.
The requirements for exempt XL bully owners are expected to be the same as those in place across the rest of the UK.
The maximum penalty for breaching this legislation is up to six months in prison and/or a fine of up to £5,000. 
The Irish government is also banning XL bullies. Importing, breeding, selling and rehoming will be prohibited from 1 October, and it will be illegal to own an XL bully without a certificate of exemption from 1 February 2025.
Breed-specific bans do not work and are unfair on responsible dog owners and their pets, according to the Dog Control Coalition. 
The body includes Battersea Dogs and Cats Home, the Dogs Trust, the Kennel Club, the RSPCA and the British Veterinary Association. 
The group wants a complete overhaul of the Dangerous Dogs Act, including tougher penalties for owners who fail to control their dogs.
Four other breeds are banned in the UK under the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991: 
BBC reporter Jordan Davies asks experts why the ban on the American XL bully dog is controversial and what impact it is likely to have.
