You can try to dissect Simone Biles’ routines, slowing down the video, analyzing them frame by frame, every flip and spin and twirl and dismount. You can break down her scores, the ambitious level of difficulty married with serene execution. You can quantify her supreme athleticism, the explosive legs, the powerful torso, the flexible shoulders.
Or you can just talk to her competitors, the people who can’t beat her, the people who know.
Germany’s Elisabeth Seitz in 17th place: “It’s ridiculous what she does. It’s not just gymnastics like how everyone else is doing it. She’s doing the most incredible things, and she makes it look so easy. It’s just many levels higher than everyone else.”
Canada’s Ellie Black in fifth: “Definitely the best female gymnast there’s ever been … I cannot tell you how. I don’t think she’s human.”
The Netherlands’ Lieke Wevers in 20th: “She is superwoman.”
American Aly Raisman: “We all knew Simone was going to win. I was just hoping to get second.”
And win gymnastics’ individual all-around title she did Thursday. Elegantly. Powerfully. Masterfully. Convincingly.
So convincingly that she momentarily lost the lead, trailing Russia’s Aliya Mustafina by .034 points after the vault and uneven bars, and no one batted a fake eyelash. Including Biles.
“I wasn’t even really worried about that,” said Biles, whose 4-foot-9 frame puts her at a disadvantage on the uneven bars. “I knew if I did a good (balance) beam set like I have in practice, I’d be fine. The scores jump around all the time.”

        
    
She did, scoring 15.433 with tumbling passes on the 4-inch beam that others only dare try at ground level. Mustafina was up next and bombed, scoring 13.866. The Russians protested the mark; no dice, it stood.
Not that she was catching Biles, who left no doubt with a scintillating floor exercise, ripping off her signature move that has since been named after her: a double layout with a half-turn, capped by a blind landing. Her score of 15.933 gave her a four-apparatus total of 62.198, a gapping 2.1 points ahead of the silver medal.
“It doesn’t feel real,” said the 4-foot-9 Biles, who won all-around titles at the 2013, 2014 and 2015 World Championships, a rare run of dominance in a sport with high turnover. “To me, I’m just the same Simone even though I have two gold medals.”
The more intriguing battle was for silver between Raisman and Mustafina that brought back memories of 2012, when they were deadlocked for the all-around bronze and the Russian prevailed in a tiebreaker. Raisman was one of two holdovers from the 2012 team (Gabby Douglas, who didn’t qualify for the all-around competition since only two per country can, is the other), and had been pursuing the one thing missing from an otherwise illustrious resume: an all-around medal at an Olympics or World Championships.
She got it Thursday, a silver. Mustafina got the bronze.
“REDEMPTION BABY,” Raisman tweeted a few hours later. “That is all. Good night.”
She finished her floor exercise and burst into tears before she had left the mat, then leaped into the arms of coach Mihai Brestyan.
Biles finished her floor exercise … and burst into tears as well, part out of unbridled joy, part out of relief after what had become a tense week outside the arena.
“It just hit me,” Biles said. “Every emotion came out in me at once, so it was kind of a train wreck.”
Biles and her younger sister were adopted by maternal grandfather Ron Biles and his wife after they were put in foster care amid addiction issues by her biological parents. A few hours before the team competition Tuesday, TMZ posted a video interview with her mother, Shannon Biles, that was critical of Ron for discussing her drug problems on NBC.
“I feel they’re defaming my character,” said Shannon Biles, who lives in Columbus, Ohio, and claims to be sober since 2007, “because I know what happened ... I feel he didn’t have to be so harsh about it. I am his first born. He could have been a little bit classy with it, really. He didn’t need to throw me under the bus like that. But I did go through my struggles.
“I’ve gotten better and life goes on. And that’s my past, and that’s where it should be left at: the past.”
Shannon Biles has limited contact with her daughter, saying they speak by phone about every three months and she’ll occasionally attend a competition. She couldn’t afford to come to Rio, instead hosting Olympic viewing parties at her home.
“I’ve been following her for years,” Shannon Biles says on the video. “I’m proud. I’m just proud. I’m ecstatic. I’m speechless.”
