A man who fantasised about committing a mass murder in Falkirk has been given a life sentence by appeal judges.
Jordan Mitchell, 27, was handed an order for lifelong restriction following hearings at the Court of Criminal Appeal.
He was given the sentence over behaviour he displayed during and after a hospital visit in which he boasted he had killed and mutilated animals.
Mitchell then stated he intended to murder members of the public in future.
When an order for lifelong restriction is imposed, an offender must serve the minimum term set and be kept under supervision for the rest of their life.
Mitchell, of Denny, Falkirk, had a lock knife with him when he made the remarks, at the Forth Valley Royal Hospital in Larbert.
He subsequently made a number of alarming remarks to social workers. 
Mitchell spoke of plans to kill people and how he "in some respects" identified with Incel ideology.
This was described by appeal judges as a belief held by celibate men who are angered by the sexual activities of others and "particularly women." 
The court heard he had been researching Incel killer Elliot Rodger, who shot dead six people in California in 2014. 
Mitchell also gave a "disturbing history of torturing, mutilating and killing animals".
He told hospital staff that the knife had been purchased because he had a long-standing plan to go on a "spree murder" attack in Falkirk.  
A sheriff sitting at Falkirk Sheriff Court originally sent Mitchell to be sentenced at the High Court. 
He was sentenced to four years in jail and ordered to be supervised for 10 years following his release from custody. 
Lawyers for Mitchell went to the Court of Criminal Appeal to argue that the original four-year sentence imposed on him by the High Court judge was "excessive". 
But appeal judges Lady Dorrian, Lord Pentland and Lord Matthews refused to grant the appeal. 
In a written judgment, Lord Pentland said that Mitchell should be given an order for lifelong restriction. 
The judge said it was clear from risk assessments that Mitchell presented a "particularly high risk to public safety".
He said: "He has fantasised over many years about committing mass murder. 
"There is evidence that he should not be considered a fantasist and, on at least one occasion, might have been close to realising his aim."
The judge said there was no prospect of Mitchell being managed safely in the community at the present time. 
He added: "He will require close management, supervision and treatment in prison for the foreseeable future. It may never be safe to release him. 
"The court is entirely satisfied that the risk criteria are met and that an order for lifelong restriction must be made. 
"That sentence constitutes a sentence of imprisonment for an indeterminate period."
Mitchell originally appeared at Falkirk Sheriff Court in June 2022 and pleaded guilty to using threatening behaviour.
He also admitted having the knife in the hospital A&E department without lawful excuse.
