Voters out and about in Welwyn Garden City had some sympathy for departing Conservative MP Grant Shapps on Friday - but little for the Conservative government.Labour won Welwyn Hatfield and ended the defence secretary's 19-year run as an MP.One shopper who switched from Conservative to Labour pointed to "Partygate", "Dear Old Boris" and Liz Truss as reasons for the Labour landslide.A woman who voted Conservative suggested that Mr Shapps was a victim of the national party's failings.
Retired maintenance worker George Flack, 70, said the Conservatives had lost the election before 4 July."I think the Tories went down two years ago," said Mr Flack, who was shopping in Welwyn with wife Carol, 68."There was 'Partygate', dear old Boris - and then Liz Truss."They lost the trust of the people - and now they've lost Truss, too."Mr Flack said he had switched his vote from Conservative to Labour yesterday."Grant Shapps losing here was not unexpected - but I was amazed at the Labour majority," he said."I voted Labour this time because we have not seen anything of Grant Shapps for the last two years."He's a good person. He's been doing a good job as defence secretary but he has not been available to to us."Over the last couple of years, he has just disappeared."
Medical secretary Betty Thomas, 63, said she voted for Mr Shapps and was surprised to see him lose the Welwyn Hatfield seat.She thought people were disillusioned with the Conservatives nationally."I was happy with the status quo," she said."I thought better the devil you know, better Shapps - although I don't really mean that he's a devil."I was very surprised. I thought it would be a given here."I think people are disillusioned with the Conservatives - it's not just Shapps."It's been one thing after another after another. Their indiscretions - the way they portray themselves."
Labour's Andrew Lewin overturned a 10,733 majority in the constituency.Mr Shapps said the Conservatives had tried the patience of voters and the public was fed up with the party's "endless political soap opera".He said people "do not vote for divided parties".
Former horse groom Sarah Gates, who has been left disabled after an accident, said she was a Labour stalwart. "My grandfather brainwashed me into voting Labour," she said."I have always voted Labour."She said she was pleased but "very surprised" to see Mr Shapps lose."I'm on benefits and I have problems with my teeth and I can't get an NHS dentist. They just say, 'You will have to go private'."I know Labour will not put up with that - they will make more places available."She added: "Labour will build council houses."I just think they are nicer - more human."
Chef Becca Watts, 34, said she voted Green and was pleased with their performance nationally.She said the main parties were not addressing  the environment properly."That's the big issue for me - the environment," she said."It has been neglected. There needs to be more focus."To build strong economies you need to have a strong planet to work with."She added: "I think there is a little more hope under Labour - but I'm still sceptical."
Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
