A man has been fined after having a dangerous dog which attacked a police horse in a park last year.
Metropolitan Police horse PH Urbane was attacked by the animal in Victoria Park in east London on 22 March 2023. 
A social media video at the time showed a dog repeatedly biting the horse, which tried to jump up and turn away.
Hakan Niyazi Candermir, 25, from Bow in east London, previously pleaded guilty to the offence at Willesden Magistrates Court in September.
At the same court on 18 January, Candermir was ordered to pay more than £1,800 in total - comprising of £1,300 compensation, a £323 fine, a £129 surcharge and £85 in costs. 
The court also made an order that the dog must be kept under control by someone no less than 16 years of age and securely fitted with a muzzle when in public. 
Warning: this story contains graphic images
In a statement shortly after the attack the Metropolitan Police said mounted officers were on a routine patrol in the park when they came across Candermir, who was walking his dog off the lead.
The force said the dog began attacking the horse "unprovoked" and Candermir was unable to control the dog or get him away from PH Urbane.
In a video, which was widely shared on TikTok, the attack continued for at least a minute.
The footage shows PH Urbane jumping up and spinning round to escape the brown dog, which continued attacking the larger animal.
Members of the public could be seen trying to intervene and separate the two animals, including with a large stick, and a police officer could be heard shouting at Candermir. 
The Met said it was at this point Candermir put the dog back on a lead - "after no attempt to help during the incident".
PH Urbane received eight lacerations from dog bites and needed stitches for wounds to his front legs, chest and underbelly.
The horse spent several months recuperating at the Met's equestrian facility and then at The Horse Trust, but is now fully recovered and back on Met patrols.
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
