A weather warning has been issued across the East of England, with heavy rain and strong winds forecast throughout Monday.
The Met Office has issued a "yellow" warning for all parts of the region, extending into much of the country.
Officials warned of the "odd rumble of thunder" and said further bands of showers were expected until 22:00 BST.
The Environment Agency has separately issued several flood alerts.
Agency officials said flooding was possible in Buckinghamshire and Hertfordshire.
Some rail services have been suspended due to blocked lines and and damage to overhead wires. 
A tree has blocked railway lines at Westerfield.
Some services running through the station may be cancelled, delayed or revised, said a Greater Anglia spokesperson.
Overhead electric wires have been blocked due to damage between the c2c Barking and West Horndon country-bound services. 
A spokesperson from the service said services may be cancelled, delayed or diverted, and Greater Anglia, London Underground and London buses were accepting c2c tickets.
All lines are blocked at Colchester Town due to a tree blocking the railway.
A Greater Anglia spokesperson said: "Train services between Colchester North and Walton-on-the-Naze are unable to call at Colchester Town due to a tree on the line. This has been caused by the high winds we are experiencing today.
"Greater Anglia tickets will be accepted on local buses between Colchester Town and Colchester North until further notice."
Network Rail engineers have removed a tree that blocked the line between Elsenham and Stansted. 
However, due to congestion caused by the blockage, service disruption is expected to continue for a little longer.
Met Office forecasters said Monday's weather would be largely unsettled, with spells of heavy showers.
BBC forecasters also predicted heavy showers, hail and thunder.
The Environment Agency warned of potential flooding in areas including Welwyn and Hertford, and said roads could flood around High Wycombe.
The agency had, in recent days, issued flood alerts in other eastern counties, including Norfolk and Suffolk.
Elsewhere in England, a suspected tornado has left a trail of damage in a Staffordshire village, with a caravan flipped over and dozens of cars and homes damaged.
Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook, Instagram and X. If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk
