First Minister Humza Yousaf has rejected calls to suspend his predecessor Nicola Sturgeon amid a police probe into SNP finances.
It comes after a leaked video appeared to show the former SNP leader playing down financial concerns in March 2021.
Opposition leaders had called for the party to suspend the backbench MSP and her husband, ex-SNP chief executive Peter Murrell.
Mr Yousaf also dismissed claims that Ms Sturgeon might soon resign as an MSP.
In the leaked clip, published by the Sunday Mail, the then-first minister told National Executive Committee (NEC) members the party's finances had never been stronger. She also warned of the impact on donors of going public with concerns.
The meeting took place just a few days before the first complaint was made to police about the SNP's finances.
The Scottish Conservatives and Scottish Labour have called on Humza Yousaf to suspend his predecessor and Mr Murrell from the SNP.
The first minister was asked about the video after he spoke at the STUC conference in Dundee.
"I wasn't particularly disturbed at all by the video in the way that some of our opponents seem to be," he told reporters.
He said he did not think Ms Sturgeon would resign as an MSP.
"We are far past the time of judging what a woman does based on what happens to her husband," Mr Yousaf added.
Asked if the former SNP leader should be suspended, he said "not at all".
Earlier, former SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford rubbished calls for Ms Sturgeon to be suspended.
He told the BBC's Good Morning Scotland programme: "There is no reason for that at all."
He accused opponents of "politicking" with calls for Ms Sturgeon be suspended. 
The former Westminster leader added: "There is nothing which is in any way untoward on that clip which was shown over the course of the weekend."
The MP said he was told "towards the tail end" of 2022 that the SNP's long-term accountants, Johnston Carmichael, had quit. 
The firm resigned in September, and there is concern that the party may be unable to file its account by the Electoral Commission deadline in July.
Ms Sturgeon has confirmed she will not attend Holyrood in person as MSPs return from the Easter recess following the arrest of Mr Murrell.
"In order ensure the focus of this week is on the new first minister setting out his priorities for the people of Scotland, Ms Sturgeon has always intended to participate remotely and intends to return to Holyrood in the near future," a spokesperson said.
Mr Murrell was released without charged amid a Police Scotland investigation into party finances. 
A report in the Daily Telegraph that suggested Ms Sturgeon could step down as an MSP was dismissed by Mr Blackford as "idle speculation".
"I speak to my colleague Nicola on a very regular basis and I can tell you that she is focused on serving the interests of her constituents," he said. "She's still got an awful lot to give."
The SNP's NEC met on Saturday following a turbulent fortnight.
The Sunday Times reported party treasurer Colin Beattie told members the party was "having difficulty in balancing the books due to the reduction in membership and donors".
Mr Blackford said there had been "selective reporting" over Mr Beattie's comments amid a "media frenzy" over the SNP's finances. 
"I've had a readout of that meeting and what was said at the meeting is that the SNP's accounts are in balance," he said.
The Ross, Skye and Lochaber MP insisted the SNP is solvent and able to meet its liabilities, including a potential byelection in Rutherglen.
He added: "Auditors will be put in place and the accounts will be lodged with the Electoral Commission in a timely manner as is always the case."
It is understood that the SNP has approached a number of firms about auditing their accounts but have not yet found one with the capacity to take them on.
Mr Blackford said "progress was being made" on appointing auditors but said he did not know how many companies had been approached. 
The resignation has also posed a problem for the SNP's Westminster group, which is required to submit an auditor's certificate to the House of Commons by 31 May to ensure it receives public funds - known as Short money - for 2023-24. 
The Westminster group was allocated more than £1.1m of Short money in 2022/23. 
Mr Blackford told BBC Scotland "all the relevant" financial information regarding SNP Westminster group finances was passed to Stephen Flynn when he took over as group leader in December. 
He added: "The deadlines that are there for the SNP Westminster group to submit their accounts will be met."
Police Scotland began a formal investigation into the party's finances, named Operation Branchform, in the summer of 2021. 
The police inquiry resulted in the arrest of Mr Murrell earlier this month as well as a search of the SNP's Edinburgh offices and the confiscation of a £100,000 motorhome, reported to have been purchased as a campaign bus ahead of the May 2021 election.
Mr Murrell was later released without charge pending further investigation.
Following the video leak, Scottish Tory chairman Craig Hoy said: "If Humza Yousaf wants to show he's determined to tackle the crisis within the SNP, he should suspend the party membership of Nicola Sturgeon and Peter Murrell."
Scottish Labour deputy leader Jackie Baillie also said Mr Yousaf should consider suspending Ms Sturgeon and Mr Murrell. 
An SNP spokesperson said on Sunday that the NEC has agreed a series of proposals to increase transparency. 
They added: "It is the case that the SNP accounts are published annually and are in order."
