Friends who live more than 3,000 miles apart and met online over their love of Taylor Swift came together for the first time on the UK leg of her Eras tour.Lauren Stephenson, from Manchester, and Brinda Selvamanoharan, from Toronto, Canada, got the chance to finally hug each other on Thursday at the singer's first of three shows at Anfield Stadium in Liverpool. The pair, who describe themselves as friendship "soulmates", met on the social media platform Tumblr nine years ago, bonding over their passion for Swift."Never did we believe we would ever see Taylor together, I have cried so many times," said Ms Stephenson. 
Ms Stephenson, 34, and Ms Selvamanoharan, 37, met for the first time as Taylor Swift came to the city to perform her sell-out Eras tour.More than 55,000 fans packed into the stadium to witness the American superstar perform her catalogue of hits, spanning 18 years.The friends, along with Ms Stephenson's daughter, Florence, soaked up the atmosphere with fellow Swifties just before the show, with the eight year old handing out friendship bracelets to others.Ms Selvamanoharan said it felt "surreal" to finally meet after she was given a ticket to the Liverpool show by Ms Stephenson's fiancé.She said: "It just seemed like old friends catching up, it didn't seem like meeting for the first time."
The Swifties have shared many milestones together, including both having children.After meeting in 2015, just before Swift's 1989 tour, the duo have video called each other three times a week for the past nine years."She (Taylor) has been therapy for both of us with things that we have been through in our lives," added Ms Selvamanoharan. "Our children have grown up together through video calls, we are like soulmates, we almost feel like we are the same person, one in the UK, one in Canada."
The first Liverpool show marked the Anti-Hero singer's 100th Eras tour performance, and also the pop princess's half-birthday. Although Florence attended with the firm friends, Ms Selvamanoharan's daughter, Shaleena, six, could not make it but wore the same Eras tour outfit as the group to school in Canada - her picture also featured on the back of her mother's jacket.  It is very much a family affair as after the gig she told the BBC she was planning on meeting the rest of Ms Stephenson's family. "My mum now considers you an honorary daughter," said Ms Stephenson."Everyone has been excited to meet me just as much as she has, which has been really nice," added Ms Selvamanoharan. Taylor Swift continues her Eras tour shows in Liverpool at Anfield Stadium on 14 and 15 June. 
Listen to the best of BBC Radio Merseyside on Sounds and follow BBC Merseyside on Facebook, X, and Instagram. You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
