A dog who was missing for five months is "happy to be back" after surviving the winter in rural Pembrokeshire.
Costa, a three-year-old Newfoundland Cross from Greenacres Rescue Centre in Haverfordwest, was being rehomed when he ran away at the end of September.
Since then he has endured living in the wild, braving storms, freezing temperatures and heavy rain.
It was feared he was dead, but rescuers lured him into a rescue trap using chicken broth.
Centre manager Mikey Lawler said Costa is "a bit tatty" but doing well.
Nervy pup Costa was being taken to his new home when he escaped from his new owner's car, a 50 minute drive from the centre.
"He literally just vanished," said Mr Lawler. 
"We searched for him - staff and volunteers were going looking for him and he was being spotted occasionally, usually very early in the morning or quite late at night, but by the time we got up there he'd be gone again.
"This went on and on, all within a six-mile radius. Then he just disappeared completely for about a month, we didn't have any sightings at all. We really thought he'd died."
Then, last week, Drone Search and Rescue for Lost Dogs picked up Costa on their cameras.
"They left some highly concentrated chicken broth and set a trap for him," said Mr Lawler.
"He went in and that was that. We're super, super grateful to them, their role was completely vital."
Costa was taken back to the centre, where he has mostly been "crashed out sleeping and relaxing, knowing he's safe". 
He was given a clean bill of health by vets and is now waiting for his forever home.
"For a dog on the run for five months, finding his own food, he's by no means emaciated or underweight, he's not in a bad condition at all," said Mr Lawler.
"His coat's a bit tatty, but I was expecting him to be far worse.
"I'm sure when he was living out rough, he was living on his nerves and having to move from place to place. He's been through such a long time of not knowing where his next meal or drink was going to come from.
"It's a long time - and the five hardest months of the year. It's been really tough for him - cold, snow, all that rain."
