Voters have been reacting to the news that their MP Dan Poulter has defected from the Conservative Party and joined Labour, with some saying "good for him" and others "not impressed". The BBC spoke to some of them on the streets of Framlingham - a small market town in his Central Suffolk & North Ipswich constituency.Mr Poulter, a former health minister, works part time as a doctor and said of his decision to switch: "I think the NHS deserves better. The Conservative Party's focus today is not on delivering high-quality public services." 
Melanie Watson, a 63-year-old celebrant from Fressingfield, said although "it is a bit drastic to go from Conservative to Labour," she felt Mr Poulter had made the right decision."The NHS is in a terrible state. Personally I've only had good experiences of the NHS, but I’ve heard of people having really bad experiences - waiting two years for operations, having to wait for ages in emergency wards and being left to one side," she said."It's appalling. It’s not the fault of the staff - they’re wonderful people working their socks off. They need more staff."All I can say is good for him for sticking up for what he believes in; it’s amazing."
Tom Aherne, 76, said he was "not impressed with him" for defecting."If you're a Conservative that many years, and suddenly skip to Labour - I'm not a great fan," he said.However, he said health services were an issue. "He’s a doctor so he probably knows more than I do. You can’t see a doctor and I’m lucky to have a dentist," he said.Asked about local public opinion generally, he said: "It's not working, whatever’s happening. Most people think it can’t get any worse so they’ll probably vote Labour."
Some Conservative Party members in Suffolk privately said they were "speechless" and "stunned" by Mr Poulter's announcement.The Conservative Party said it was "disappointing news" and that the government was "raising NHS funding to a record £165bn a year"."What Dan says is wrong as Sir Keir Starmer has no plan for our NHS," a party spokesman said.
Caroline Shelver, 53, a teacher who lives in Dennington, said: "I think he’s jumping ship, jumping from a sinking ship. "I think it’s a bit unfortunate really and shows him as a bit weak and not holding himself to his beliefs."If he can’t be sure about what he believes in, how can we be sure in him?"Health? Fantastic, I'm a regular at Ipswich Hospital as I have something wrong with my eyes and I find them absolutely brilliant. I moved from Somerset and feel the services match."I don’t think all these horror stories you hear are what you get when you go to the hospital."

"The more Tories that go, the better. I just want them out," said Phil Dean, 70, from Framlingham."He's seen sense at last. The Tories are just a waste of space."He said that when it came to the NHS "the Tories are totally making a mess of it".Mr Dean, who has multiple sclerosis, said that his own experience of the NHS was varied. "It depends what area you live in and what hospital you're under".
Louise Ryan, 55, works for Suffolk County Council and lives in Framlingham.She said she had "tested out the local health services lately and found it pretty good. It's been positive"."I don’t really follow politics that much, but if he felt so strongly, he had to go with that feeling," she said.She said she "did worry" about an MP being elected under one party then leaving to join another. "I did wonder how people feel when they pick that person for that party. But I guess it’s out of their hands," she said."I suppose there’s not too long to go [until the next general election]. I guess people have to take it on the chin, if he's swapped over."The next general election is expected to take place later in 2024, although it can be held any time until 28 January 2025.
Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
