BOSTON (AP) — Eduardo Rodriguez is having trouble finding his way out of a recent slump.
The Boston Red Sox starter had his latest underwhelming outing and it cost them a chance to earn their first series win this season over an American League East rival they expect to see down the road.
Rodriguez lasted just 4 1/3 innings and gave up eight hits and five runs in his fourth start of the season as the Baltimore Orioles beat Boston 5-1 on Thursday night.
Over his last three starts Rodriguez (1-2) has pitched 14 2/3 innings, while giving up 18 hits, 14 runs and nine walks.
“Just missing spots a lot of times,” Rodriguez said of his effort Thursday. “Tried to go to the outside corner and just pitch right in the middle with a fastball and with the changeup. That’s what happened I think.”
Manager John Farrell said he thinks Rodriguez had the tools, but said small shortcomings against Baltimore’s lineup were costly.
“It comes down to just the consistent execution. There were a number of at-bats where he’d get ahead in counts and would misfire on the plate to give a guy a chance to put a ball in play,” Farrell said. “Then he’d get behind in a count, he found himself in some hitter counts that ended being squared up.”
Baltimore’s Tyler Wilson allowed three hits over eight innings, while Adam Jones added a home run and three RBIs.
The Orioles scored three runs in the first four innings, then added two in fifth.

        
    
Wilson (3-5) was strong throughout striking out six. Pitching on an extra day of rest, he held Boston to one hit through six innings.
“He was down today, those two or three inches are huge,” Orioles manager Buck Showalter said.
Wilson had endured his own issues entering Thursday, allowing 10 runs over his previous 9 2/3 innings. That changed against Boston, thanks to some solid defense that took away hits and denied the Red Sox baserunners.
Meanwhile, the Orioles offense feasted on Rodriguez’s early struggles on the mound.
Walks got Rodriguez in trouble during each of his previous two starts, and he was again hurt by an early one Thursday.
After striking out three batters in the first two innings, Rodriguez walled nine-hole hitter Paul Janish to begin the third.
Jones then connected on a second-pitch fastball and sent a line drive, two-run homer over the Green Monster in left field.
Rodriguez started the fourth with another walk, and it later scored on an RBI double by Jones that made it 3-0.
He was pulled in the fifth after surrendering a one-out, RBI single to Chris Davis.
David Ortiz hit his 17th homer of the season in the ninth inning for Boston.
Red Sox: OF Chris Young sat out Thursday with tightness in his right quadriceps. Young experienced the sensation while running from first to third base in the second inning during Wednesday’s win. Farrell said it isn’t anything major. “We feel like this is such a short term situation. This is probably a one-day thing,” he said.
Orioles: RHP Darren O’Day, who went on the 15-day DL on June 3 with right hamstring biceps tendinitis, said there is still no timetable for his return. “Part of my delivery is bending over, stretching the hamstring. Before I get on the mound, I want to make sure it’s fully healed, so it won’t happen again,” O’Day said.
He said a short rehab assignment is possible, but that the decision would be made by the coaching staff.
“There’s no timetable,” he said. “I’m antsy to get back, get going, but it’s just a matter of doing it once and doing it right instead of reinjuring it.”
LHP Roenis Elias (0-0, 16.20) will make his first start and just his second appearance in a Red Sox uniform when Boston hosts the Mariners on Friday. He is in his first season after being acquired from Seattle with Carson Smith in December.
RHP Mike Wright (3-3, 5.31) will be on the mound for his 12th start of the season when the Orioles open a three-game home series against the Blue Jays on Friday. He gave up four runs in five innings and received a no-decision in Baltimore’s 11-6 loss at Toronto on June 11.
