Alexander Hamilton was the descendant of a Scottish nobleman and one of the founding fathers of America.
He never set foot in Scotland but it is his name which is now emblazoned across the glass front of Edinburgh's Festival Theatre while the musical about his life enjoys a nine-week run there.
Hamilton was created by the American actor and writer Lin-Manuel Miranda in 2015. 
Part of what drew him to the subject was Alexander Hamilton's difficult relationship with his Scottish heritage. 
He was born in the mid-1750s on the Caribbean island of Nevis, the illegitimate son of James Hamilton, who was the fourth son of an Ayrshire laird. 
Alexander was abandoned by his father and orphaned as a teenager when his mother died. But he used all his wits and abilities to get to New York, where he worked as a trader and self-funded his studies at university. 
He became involved in the revolutionary cause, writing and publishing pamphlets, and served as an artillery officer fighting against the British in the American war of independence. 
He helped draft the US constitution and served as treasury secretary in George Washington's first cabinet before dying in a duel with Vice President Aaron Burr in 1804.
Miranda - who is of Puerto Rican and Afro-American heritage - used hip-hop and street dance and a diverse cast of mainly non-white performers to create his musical telling the story of Hamilton's life. 
He describes the show as being about America then but told by Americans now.
It went on to win 11 Tony awards and over nine years has become one of the highest-grossing musicals ever, taking close to $1bn across the world.
And now it has come to Scotland.
The chance to perform in Hamilton in her own country is a dream come true for Honey Joseph, who is the only Scottish cast member in the touring production.
The 24-year-old actress grew up in Cardross in Argyll and Bute. 
"I'm Scottish, I grew up here, I trained in Edinburgh," she says.
"I used to listen to the soundtrack as I walked down the street in Edinburgh so I can't describe how special this is for me.
"It's such a full circle moment. Hamilton's family were Scottish for a start so it's paying homage to him and his history."
It is also a full circle moment for Honey's family. 
Her parents, Paul and Pauline Joseph, were professional dancers who first pioneered their blend of street and contemporary dance in Scotland. They arrived in 1999 to start their family and a dance school, Urbaniks, in Milngavie.
"There was nothing else like that," says Pauline.
"There was some break-dancing but there was no commercial street styles that incorporated the vibe that we had, so it was really fresh and every class we taught was inundated with people desperate for this new funky style."
By then they had two children - Honey and Niyah. They have since had two more - Loxi and Tio. All are involved with dance.
Although the couple continued to perform as dancers, they found teaching easier to build family life around.
Their timing was good. The popularity of street dance just kept growing, particularly thanks to high-profile groups like Britain's Got Talent winners Diversity.
"We had to open separate classes and hire bigger halls. We didn't expect the huge demand," says Pauline.
All four of their children have learned to dance in their classes. Niyah is now a professional footballer for Albion Rovers and Honey is one of 12 professional dancers the school has produced.
But for most of their students, it is simply a fun activity.
"We've got lawyers, forensic scientists, doctors and schoolteachers and it's like a pulse of life," says Pauline.
"It's a way of expressing yourself and letting the day go. The first class we set up was a ladies' class and those ladies say this is better than HRT."
Paul believes street dance is more accessible than any other form of dance.
"It doesn't matter what age you are, or from what background," he says.
"Once the music's on and everybody's in the vibe then it's a kind of big collective. It's probably why we've kept doing it for so long. As our energy is dwindling, the kids keep boosting us back up again."
Hamilton has been an important moment for the family - both personally and professionally.
"In the early 90s we took our hip-hop contemporary and theatre dance and put it in front of an audience and toured it. It wasn't as good as Hamilton but it's what we started years ago and seeing it now taken to this new level is a joy. It's full circle moment for us," says Pauline.
And there's a further local connection to the show. 
Last year, Reuben Joseph played the title role in the West End production. He and Honey attended Hermitage Academy in Helensburgh together.
"I constantly bump into Reuben's mum in the supermarket", says Pauline, "and we catch up about the highs and lows and the reality of parenting performers."
Reuben recently came to the Edinburgh show.
"It was really lovely to catch up with him," says Honey.
"We're not related but we went to school together. So for both of us to come from a small town in Scotland to making it to this massive show is crazy."
"Being Scottish, sometimes you feel you have to move to London since there's not enough opportunity. So I think for performers to see another Scottish performer do well is really important. 
"I've had so many lovely messages from people saying they feel inspired and that's such a brilliant feeling."
Hamilton is at the Edinburgh Festival Theatre until 27 April.
