Ed Sheeran joined Ipswich Town's dressing room celebrations after their 3-0 Championship win over Hull City.
The global star - on hiatus from his US tour - was also spotted pulling pre-match pints for fans at Portman Road.
After the game, Sheeran, 32, was filmed singing his song Perfect with Town's players and staff.
Earlier in the day he had returned to his former school, Thomas Mills High in Framlingham, Suffolk, to perform to pupils.
Sheeran, who grew up in Framlingham and has a home in the area, is currently on a three-week break from his US stadium tour.
A Tractor Boys fan, he has been a regular visitor to the Championship side's Portman Road home and has sponsored the club's football shirt for three seasons.
He is also an honorary member of the Town squad, with the number 17 shirt reserved for him.
Sheeran's registration as a squad number meant he was entitled to a League One runners-up medal after Ipswich's promotion last season - which he collected at Tuesday's game.
Speaking to the club's media channel, Town TV, he said: "It's great to be back in England. 
"Everyone I speak to, even if they aren't Ipswich fans, are like 'Ipswich are going up'."
He says the club "feels like home", and also plans to attend Saturday's home match against Preston North End.
Ipswich Town fan Daisy Hendry said Sheeran was "lovely and smiling", as he served her a drink during about 15 minutes behind a bar at the club's ground.
The season ticket holder of 23 years said it was the first time she had bumped into him at the stadium.
"It just happened he was in the stand I sit in," said Ms Hendry.
"It definitely wasn't what I was expecting when I went into the ground this evening. 
"He was lovely and smiling and is ready for automatic promotion.
"I was shocked, but apart from a couple of security, he was happy walking around behind the bar and having photos with people at the end."
Philip Hurst, head teacher at Thomas Mills High, told BBC Radio Suffolk that Sheeran was "a really good friend to the school".
On his latest visit to the school, Sheeran performed for sixth-form and year seven students before taking questions.
Mr Hurst said that when asked what he would do if not a global music star, Sheeran replied that he would "be a teacher".
"He's so good at being ordinary," said Mr Hurst. "That's why people admire him."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
