Aberdeenshire councillors have voted in favour of stopping the local authority's out-of-school care provision.
Fifteen of Aberdeenshire's 146 primary schools provide the service, which is used by about 350 children.
The education and children's services committee heard it was no longer viable due to low use and high cost - with a potential overspend of nearly £700,000.
Some parents criticised the move, with one describing it as "devastating".
Kim Ritchie, from Portlethen, said her seven-year-old son Jacob currently goes to a breakfast club and after-school care provided by the council.
The community nurse said it would have a potentially major impact on family life.
"I cannot really express how devastating this decision is for myself and my son," she said.
"It's well-known that there is a severe lack of childminders in the Portlethen area.
"I am having to consider leaving my position in the NHS where I have worked for the last 12 years. This would affect my housing situation, lead me into financial crisis and potentially poverty."
A report to the meeting said each child was subsidised by more than £1,400.
Councillors voted by 11 votes to six to withdraw the out-of-school service provision in Aberdeenshire from 6 July.
Provision is currently available in Ellon, Westhill, Banchory, Balmedie, Pitmedden, Mintlaw, and Inverbervie, as well as Portlethen.
These services provide care for about 2% of Aberdeenshire's pupils.
The committee heard that parents had been contacting them about their concerns.
Councillor Anne Simpson said the issue was the "first of many difficult decisions" the council faced ahead of setting its budget.
She said: "It saddens me very much that we're in the position that we are in.
"I recognise for the parents of the 349 children affected by this that it will be a blow to them."
However, she backed the recommendation to cease the out-of-school service.
"I don't think we have a choice about what we do here," she said.
Additional reporting by the Local Democracy Reporting Service (LDRS).
