A man stabbed and slashed his girlfriend and her family to death in a drug and alcohol-fuelled attack, a trial heard.
Joshua Jacques, 29, killed Samantha Drummonds, her mother Tanysha Ofori-Akuffo, her grandmother Dolet Hill, and Ms Hill's partner, Denton Burke.
Police were called to Ms Hill's home in Bermondsey, south-east London, in April 2022 where the four were found.
Mr Jacques has admitted manslaughter but is being tried for murder.
Tom Little KC, prosecuting, told jurors at the Old Bailey: "This case involves not one death, not two deaths, and not even three deaths but four violent and brutal deaths at the hands of this defendant.
"All of those deaths occurred during the same incident. In killing four people, the prosecution say that the defendant murdered three generations of one family.
"The prosecution case is that this is a clear case of murder or, more accurately, a clear case of quadruple murder."
Mr Jacques, who had been in a relationship with Ms Drummonds, admits killing the four but claims he was suffering from a mental health condition.
The jury was told he attacked the family in the middle of the night, before being tasered by police who broke into the house.
They had been called by neighbours who reported hearing shouting on the night of 25 April 2022 at Mr Burke and Ms Hill's home.
Ms Ofori-Akuffo had been staying to help her mother with her cancer care and her daughter was also a regular guest.
Mr Little told the court that Mr Jacques was discovered lying in the bathroom "in a praying position".
As police approached he screamed "Allah, take me!", "Kill me now", "Get rid of me" and "God please forgive me".
Mr Little told the jury the defendant was accused of murder and they would have to decide "why he did so and what his state of mind was at the time".
He said Mr Jacques had taken a mix of drugs and alcohol that led to a "transient psychotic disorder not meeting the requirements for the defendant to make out a partial defence of diminished responsibility".
After his arrest police officers heard the defendant refer to the killings as "sacrifices", adding: "I will do something stupid again."
Mr Jacques, from Minard Road, Lewisham in south-east London, denies murder.
The trial continues.
Follow BBC London on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hellobbclondon@bbc.co.uk
