Search teams are looking for a 16-year-old boy missing after being seen in a reservoir.Emergency services were called to Lodge Farm Reservoir on Highbridge Road, Netherton, Dudley, at about 18:00 BST on Tuesday after a teenager was seen in the water. Paramedics had immediately been sent into the water, the ambulance service said, and had also provided treatment to a bystander, a girl with an underlying health condition.Police divers are continuing the search on Wednesday with the fire service assisting.
West Midlands Fire Service (WMFS) said a specialist submersible drone team was brought in from Lancashire Fire and Rescue Service to help the search.Area manager Marc Hudson said: "This is heartbreaking for the family and friends of the missing boy. They, and the local community, are in our thoughts and prayers."Whatever the circumstances surrounding the boy’s disappearance, this incident is a stark reminder of the dangers of open water - especially as the summer holidays get under way."
West Midlands Ambulance Service said it remained at the scene on Wednesday, adding that its hazardous response team had entered the water on Tuesday to join emergency service colleagues in the search.Police said emergency services were doing everything they could to support all those involved.
On Tuesday, it asked the public to avoid the area to allow emergency services to respond and said Highbridge Road was closed. Marc Hudson has also urged people to take extra care near reservoirs, lakes, rivers and canals."Although the water might appear tempting and safe, it can be extremely cold," he said. "The currents are often too strong for even the best swimmers, and there can be hidden objects and dangers below the surface."
Cat Eccles, the newly elected MP for Stourbridge, said: "My thoughts go out to the boy's family and friends following this tragic incident."I'd like to thank members of the community who came out to support the search, including the Dudley Sub Aqua club and paddle boarders from the Water Sports club."
Follow BBC Birmingham on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
