A secondary school has celebrated the different cultures represented by pupils with its 15th annual Diversity Day.On Tuesday, more than 160 students took part in the day at Jack Hunt School in Peterborough, which included cultural performances, traditional outfits and different cuisines being shared among attendees.Marco Cereste, the mayor of Peterborough, said it was a “fantastic event” that demonstrated the city's multiculturalism.Pupils told the BBC the event was “great fun”, which helped “bring people together" and allowed them to “educate one another on the different fabrics of society".
The event was initially started as a language and culture day 15 years ago, and the school – where students speak more than 60 languages - said it has now grown into a “vibrant celebration” of diverse backgrounds.Myowamba and Telalo both 15, said they were proud to represent their Zimbabwean heritage and have been preparing for the event for weeks."We are representing and sharing a part of our identity. We hope to learn about other cultures and educate ourselves as well today,” Myowamba said.
Vasilisa, 15, who moved to Peterborough from Ukraine, said it was important for her to highlight the challenges faced by her home country.“It was difficult first to move and adjust in the school as I didn’t have many friends. I have a disability and use brail and some people didn’t know how to communicate with me. But I am happy now,” she said.
Wasila and Areen, both 15, said they wanted to show people “how nice the Moroccan culture is”.Areen said: “It gives you an opportunity to see different cultures first hand. Some people get information online which may not always be accurate."
The other countries represented by pupils included Bangladesh, Lithuania, Portugal, Palestine and Afghanistan and many more. These cultures were showcased alongside religious representation from Sikhism and Judaism, Islam and Christianity among others.A stand representing the LGBTQ+ community was also on display.
Mr Cereste said the young people did “a great job”.“I think what leads to aggression is ignorance. So the more the people learn the less chance of us ending up in a punch up," he said.
Sidra Hussain, the international education coordinator at the school, said the diversity day aligned with their mission to “nurture global citizens who are both empathetic and knowledgeable".“It’s a testament to our community and students who are bringing the best out of all of us and putting our differences aside,” she said.
Follow Peterborough news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
