The CEO of an animal sanctuary is taking on the "difficult challenge" of sleeping rough for a week in an effort to raise money to help save the centre.Ferne Animal Sanctuary in Chard, Somerset, has rescued, rehabilitated, or rehomed some 40,000 animals since it first began in 1939.Kevan Hodges said the centre had experienced "unprecedented financial pressures" in the past few years and needed fresh donations in order to survive. From 19 until 25 June, Mr Hodges will camp near seven of the charity's shops, including Sidmouth, Honiton, and Dorchester.
"Anybody that knows me would know this is the last thing I would do, because I like my creature comforts, so this is a big challenge for me," said Mr Hodges."We've had several incidents this year with animals abandoned in taped up boxes, in the middle of nowhere, or on the side of main roads, just soaked through."My challenge is not meant to copy that, because I've got a tent and a sleeping bag. I can look after and fend for myself, these animals cannot. "They're unwanted, utterly helpless and at that time, friendless. My next seven nights is meant to highlight that plight."
Alongside raising awareness, Mr Hodges said he hoped his fundraiser would bring the centre back from a financial cliff edge. "If you look at the past 12 months, vet and medical bills have gone up by more than 60% each year," he said."All of our costs, including food, bedding, utility and labour, have had a year-on-year increase of 50%. "We're talking hundreds of thousands of pounds here. That, for a small charity, can very quickly become unsustainable."  
Ferne is one of the oldest animal charities in the UK. The Ferne Estate, located on the Wiltshire Dorset border, started taking in animals at the outbreak of the Second World War. The owner of the estate, Lady Nina, worried that many animals would temporarily or permanently lose their owners to the conflict, or would otherwise be displaced due to the bombing.This drove her to launching her request for free animal accommodation via a BBC broadcast in August 1939. Ferne Animal Sanctuary eventually became a registered charity in 1965 and relocated to Somerset a decade later."It's a unique charity that must survive," said Mr Hodges."If we can raise awareness, manage our costs and create new income streams, there's light at the end of the tunnel and we can persevere for another 85 years."
Follow BBC Somerset on Facebook and X. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
