A Surrey school will close after 143 years as the number of full-fee paying pupils drops. 
Belmont School is an independent school near Dorking with about 200 places for a mixture of day pupils and boarders. 
The school said it had been affected by falling numbers of full-fee paying pupils, higher interest rates and increased operating costs.
The school has confirmed it will close at the end of term on Friday. 
Marc Broughton, head of Belmont School, said: "It's with a heavy heart that we have contacted the parent body yesterday to confirm the closure of Belmont School on the 15th of December. 
"We have worked tirelessly to exhaust all avenues to find an answer to this situation, but the governing body, Save Belmont team and school leaders have sadly been unable to come up with a viable solution."
Chair of governors Andrew Baker said: "Sadly, we have not been able to find a solution to save Belmont School.  The rescue plan that was actioned by the Belmont community to try to save the school was a clear demonstration of the incredible spirit and community within the Belmont family and we are indebted to the efforts of so many."
In 2019 the school decided to extend its age range and the school buildings in an attempt to remain financially viable and now has pupils aged between three and 16. 
The school said: "A significant eight-month delay on the completion of the Aquileon building not only further depleted the school's finances but also made marketing the school particularly difficult both to recruit new pupils and potential investors.  
"In addition to this, in recent weeks the school has found itself in dispute over final costs with the construction firm, which has resulted in a claim being taken to adjudication and subsequent litigation."
One parent said the loss of the school would be "devastating". 
Another parent, with children in years seven and nine, said: "Belmont is a magical place. Children are taught to be resilient, polite and develop a passion for learning. They grow up confident in their own skin."
Mr Baker said: "We have explored several different avenues including remaining independent, merging with a bigger local school and seeking security with a new proprietor and these discussions were ongoing until last week. 
"We have not given up hope, but in the meantime, we remain committed to supporting our pupils, parents and staff during this sad and difficult time."
The school was founded in Blackheath, south-east London, in 1880 and moved to the current site between Dorking and Guildford in 1957. 
Follow BBC South East on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk. 
