Exam season has finished for hundreds of thousands of GCSE students in England, Northern Ireland and Wales.Here is everything you need to know about results day. 
GCSE results will come out from 08:00 onwards on Thursday, 22 August. If you are collecting them in person, check with your school for an exact time.In England, GCSEs are now graded using a numerical system from 9-1, rather than A-E, as was previously the case. Students need a 4 for a "standard pass" and 5 for a "strong pass".  In Wales and Northern Ireland, GCSEs are graded using letters, unless an exam taken in those nations comes under an English exam board. 

Grade boundaries show the minimum number of marks you need for each grade. They are decided by examiners and published on results day.Qualification Wales, which oversees Welsh exams, has said there is still a risk that performance in some subjects has not fully recovered since the pandemic. So, it will use statistics to help set the grade boundaries, to prevent marks dropping below 2019 levels. In England and Northern Ireland, the way boundaries are decided has returned to normal. Only one change remained in place this year. Ofqual, England's exam regulator, said students in maths, physics, and combined-science exams were allowed to use formulae and equation sheets for the final time. This will not be allowed in 2025.
If you don't think your grade is right, you should first talk to your school or college.It will contact the exam board on your behalf and ask for your marks to be reviewed. If you still think you have been unfairly graded after a review, you can ask your school or college to appeal.If you are still not satisfied, you can request a review from Ofqual.The charity YoungMinds says results are not the only measure of success - and if things do not turn out as you had hoped, there are lots of other ways to help you achieve your goals.
You can resit any GCSE exam the following academic year. The resits for GCSE maths and English, which are both mandatory subjects, take place from 5 November.If you want to explore this option, you should speak to your school about the best course of action.

Under-18s must remain in official education or training. You may choose to stay in full-time education, start an apprenticeship or work while studying part-time.   Many pupils go on to study A-levels. International Baccalaureate (IB) is also an option.There are also a range of vocational courses you could take, such as National Vocational Qualifications (NVQs), BTec Level 3s, TechBacs, Cambridge Technicals and (in England only) T-levels.You could also consider an apprenticeship. Apprentices get paid a salary, as they spend 80% of their time in the workplace while being trained. 

The National Careers Service has more information about your options.
Scotland has a different qualification system, with Nationals, instead of GCSEs, and Highers, which are similar to A-levels. Results day in Scotland is Tuesday 6 August.
