It's a word that you'll commonly hear in Wales and now, thanks to reality show Love Island, around the world. Cwtch, a Welsh word with no literal English translation, is commonly used to mean a hug or cuddle.Its frequent use by contestant Nicole Samuel has been praised as "Welsh representation" by fans of the show.Nicole, 24, from Aberdare, is partnered with 21-year-old rugby player Ciaran Davies, from Bridgend, in an all-Welsh couple.
Ciaran and Nicole have had ups and down but have captured both each other’s and the nation’s hearts during their time in the villa.The pair became an official couple last week after an emotional speech by Ciaran, who told the boys in the villa "Welsh girls are wifey material" after pairing up with Nicole on day five of the show. The couple even left the rest of the villa – and host Maya Jama – in tears following an emotional reunion after the show separated the boys and girls for few days. 
Not only have the pair added their big personalities to the villa, but the Welsh language too. Nicole is often asking people for a “cwtch", with some of the other non-Welsh islanders using it in their vocabulary too. 
Fans of the show have noticed the word's use too - some appreciative and some bemused. "Heard cwtch on love island, this is welsh representation," wrote one on X, formerly Twitter. "Cwtch is such a Welsh thing to say. It’s been a while since I’ve even heard of that word," wrote another. However, another international fan wrote: "British people, what’s a cwtch?"
Previously voted Wales' favourite word, Cwtch means hug or cuddle - however it's second meaning is a cubbyhole or cupboard; a small space in which to store things safely.This combination can give a better sense of the untranslatable meaning of the word; the wrapping of your arms around someone to make them feel safe.In 2022, cwtch was used for the first time ever in the UK parliament, in a question from former Tory MP Fay Jones to then-prime minister Boris Johnson. Dr Mercedes Durham, a sociolinguist at Cardiff University, previously told the BBC  the word is likely used to distinguish a Welsh identity. The word ‘cwtch’ is used by Welsh speakers and English-speaking Welsh people to indicate that they’re Welsh," she said."It’s an emblem of being Welsh."
With Ciaran and Nicole voted most popular couple by the public, many fans are hoping they go all the way and win the £50,000 prize. If they were to manage it, they would follow in the footsteps of Love Island's first Welsh winner, Amber Davies, from Denbigh, who clinched the title with Kem Cetinay in 2017, and Liam Reardon, from Merthyr Tydfil, who won with Millie Court in 2021. The final will air on Monday 29 July on ITV2 at 21:00 BST.
