Residents of three Kent villages connected by the "outrageously dangerous" A262 have launched a petition for it to be downgraded to a B road.Increasing HGV traffic and speeding drivers through Biddenden, Sissinghurst and Goudhurst have caused misery, said residents.  Sarah Power, who lives in Goudhurst, said lorries have hit her house "a couple of times" and warned "it is only a matter of time before someone dies". Kent County Council (KCC) said it would review the petition when it is submitted. 
The A262 runs from the A21 in Tunbridge  Wells to Tenterden, connecting the cross country section of west Kent. Its narrow sections, tight corners and "pinch points" cause traffic problems in each village, according to residents. Residents say Grade II listed buildings have been hit by lorries, a church wall has been damaged and emergency vehicles have been stuck. The Traffic Action Group A262 (TAG A262) has called for the route to be downgraded to a B road - and lorries to restricted. 
Kevin Rampling, chairman of the group, told BBC Radio Kent the volume of lorries has increased.He said there had been numerous accidents on the road, including one in Biddenden last month where a car "ended up underneath a lorry". He said: "The lorry drivers blame the car drivers and the car drivers blame the lorry drivers - sometimes it can get quite heated. "We have got together as the three villages to go to Kent County Council to say 'you have got to manage the lorries better'."
Sarah Banbery, who lives in Biddenden, said she was surprised at traffic levels after moving from Cambridge city centre.She said there had been "virtually no traffic" when she viewed her house during lockdown and she was "very shocked" when things got back to normal She said: "These huge articulated lorries come thundering through the villages, there are traffic jams and it’s just quite shocking."These lovely old villages are absolutely scarred by this level of traffic and the type of traffic and also it’s quite dangerous."Ms Banbery said it was "particularly bad" for school children who have nowhere to cross safely. She added: "Parents taking their children to school risk their lives really."
Sarah Power, who lives on the corner of Goudhurst High Street, said: "It’s outrageously dangerous."I’ve seen emergency services vehicles stuck in traffic jams on this corner."Our home has been struck by HGVs a couple of times and I’ve seen vehicles stranded on the bollards outside as they mount the kerb. “It’s only a matter of time before someone dies here and I want to know who’ll be responsible.”
KCC said reclassifying the road to a B road would not prohibit HGV useage. It said: "Legally all classes of vehicle can use the public highway except on roads where there is a traffic regulation order in place which prohibits certain movements, such as a weight limit. "These restrictions are subject to a detailed review of both the road in question, and the nearby network which may be impacted by such changes."KCC will review the petition request when it has been submitted."
Follow BBC Kent on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250.
