The unexpected collapse of a cliff edge and a road has forced the evacuation of a caravan park as well as revealing a suspected unexploded bomb.
High tides and wind caused a road to collapse at Pakefield Holiday Park in Lowestoft, Suffolk, leaving caravans "dangerously close to the edge".
Later a suspected unexploded device was found at the base of a cliff a few hundred metres away.
A controlled explosion has now been carried out on the device.
Leon Crossman, 34, spotted the suspected bomb on the beach close to a second holiday park, Pontin's, and said he alerted coastguards, who arrived in 10 minutes. 
"You couldn't miss it," he said.
HM Coastguard confirmed it sent teams to assist East Suffolk Council and Suffolk Police with a report of suspected ordnance at Pakefield at about 12:20 GMT following a cliff fall on Friday.
Prior to the controlled explosion, it said an exclusion zone of 100m had been established around the site.
Members of the public have also been urged to keep away from part of the beach at Arbor Lane after erosion caused part of the road to collapse.
"The beach there is now a dangerous place to be," HM Coastguard said.
"The beach at the bottom of the steps at Arbor Lane has now mostly washed away. There is now a drop on to what's left of the beach."
The bomb disposal team is now leaving the site at the holiday park where they have carried out a controlled explosion after a World War Two device was found on the beach, uncovered by the surge tide. 
All focus had been on the erosion and the damage that was being caused to the caravans, but it very swiftly moved to this device.
We understand it could have been used in minesweeping, but the Army took no chances and carried out the controlled explosion. 
Further along the coast in Norfolk, the spring tide also led to the collapse of a road at the erosion-hit village of Hemsby,
A high tide is due at 20:00 GMT and HM Coastguard Lowestoft said in a Facebook post that it would continue to monitor the cliffs in Pakefield over the weekend.
A spokesman for East Suffolk Council said: "The relevant authorities are addressing the impacts, and affected areas have been cordoned off as the extent of any damage is assessed.
"Known damage which affects ordinary access includes the steps down to the beach at Arbor Lane.
"Therefore, people are asked to avoid the area and stay away from locations which may still be vulnerable. There may be debris and the possibility of further collapse and public safety is a priority."
Are you in the area? Have you been affected by what's happened? You can share your experience by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways:
If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission. 
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
