Justin Timberlake and Tiger Woods have announced plans to renovate a historic cinema in St Andrews in order to open a luxury sports bar.
The two are shareholders of the real estate company Nexus Luxury Collection, which is behind the plans.
If approved by Fife Council, the New Picture House will retain one cinema screen for theatrical releases.
The venue is expected to have golf simulators, duckpin bowling and darts and will screening sporting events.
It will be named T-Squared Social - an homage to "Timberlake" and "Tiger" - after a similar venue of the same name opened in New York City last month.
Woods said he and Timberlake came up with the idea during a round of golf at their development in the Bahamas.
He added: "Justin and I thought it would be cool to create a place that combines our favourite things and brings people together to just have a great time."
Former world number one Tiger Woods played at St Andrews at the 150th Open Championship in 2022 for what he said "felt like the last time".
The 15-time major winner won two of his three Claret Jugs at the revered venue, and wiped away tears as he was cheered the full length of the 18th hole.
He said: "I have been fortunate enough to enjoy many special moments here at St Andrews.
"We all wanted to bring our T-Squared Social concept to St Andrews to add to the local community and be a welcoming place for those living in St Andrews and for visitors alike."
Pop star Timberlake has also played golf at St Andrews, including at the Alfred Dunhill Links Championship in 2019.
He said: "I'm honoured to be able to invest in the town and bring our second T-Squared Social here. Our new venue is so much more than a typical sports bar experience - it's a place you can go to be entertained without sacrificing quality or comfort."
The New Picture House first opened in St Andrews in 1930. Managing director David Morris said it has been an integral part of the town's entertainment.
He said: "The New Picture House will continue to operate as usual until further notice. The directors look forward to supporting T-Squared Social with their development plans and to welcoming new and existing customers into the New Picture House on completion of the re-development works."
