LOS CABOS, Mexico (AP) — Erik van Rooyen made a 16-foot eagle putt on the par-5 closing hole Sunday to win the World Wide Technology Championship, a day after Matt Kuchar squandered a six-stroke lead with a late meltdown.
Playing alongside Kuchar at Tiger Woods-designed El Cardonal at Diamante on the tip of Baja California, van Rooyen played the back nine in 8-under 28 in a 9-under 63. The 33-year-old South African finished at 27-under 261 for his second PGA Tour victory, two strokes ahead of Kuchar and Camilo Villegas.
Kuchar and Villegas each shot 66, with the 45-year-old Kuchar parring the final four holes. Tied for the lead on 18, Kuchar — after van Rooyen and Villegas hit fairway-wood second shots near each other on the green — hit his approach left of the green and chipped 20 feet past the hole.
On Saturday, Kuchar was six strokes ahead at 24 under when he pulled his drive on 15 left into dense bushes and made a quadruple-bogey 8. He then bogeyed the par-3 16th, and ended up tied for the lead with Villegas.
Van Rooyen opened play Sunday with a bogey on the par-5 first and made birdies on Nos. 2 and 6. In his back-nine charge, he birdied Nos. 10-12, 14, 16 and 17 and closed with the eagle. He also won the 2021 Barracuda Championship.
BOCA RATON, Fla. (AP) — Padraig Harrington ran away with the TimberTech Championship for his second PGA Tour Champions title of the year, birdieing six of the first seven holes in a seven-stroke victory.

        
    
A shot ahead after opening rounds of 67 and 66 on The Old Course at Broken Sound, Harrington shot a 7-under 64 to finish at 16 under in the second of three Charles Schwab Cup playoff events and final playing of the tournament in Florida.
The 52-year-old Irish player has six champions victories, also winning the Dick’s Sporting Goods Open in June. He’s set to be inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame next year.
Bernhard Langer, the 66-year-old German star with a tour-record 46 victories, tied for second at 9 under with Charlie Wi, who earned a spot next week in the season-season Charles Schwab Cup Championship and wrapped up a full tour exemption for next year. Langer, the winner last year at Broken Sound, had a double bogey on 17 in a 70. Wi closed with a bogey-free 64.
The top 36 in the Cup standings qualified for the season finale in Phoenix and earned full exemptions for next season. Wi jumped from 54th to 35th, and Rob Labritz took the 36th spot.
Next year, the second playoff event will have a new sponsor and be played in Arkansas.
OMITAMA, Japan (AP) — Mone Inami of Japan won the Japan Classic for her first LPGA Tour title, closing with a 3-under 69 for a one-stroke victory.
The 24-year-old Inami finished at 22-under 266 at the Taiheiyo Club. She won for the 13th time on the Japanese tour in the co-sanctioned event.
Seon Woo Bae of South Korea and Shiho Kuwaki of Japan tied for second. Seon closed with a 67. Kuwaki, who shared the lead after three rounds, had a 71.
Defending champion Gemma Dryburgh of Scotland shot a 65 to tie sixth, three strokes back.
Marco Penge won the Rolex Challenge Tour Grand Final in Mallorca, Spain, to also top the season Road to Mallorca points race. The Englishman closed with a 3-under 69 for a six-stroke victory at Club de Golf Alcanada. ... Keita Nakajima shot a 6-under 66 for a three-stroke victory in the Japan Golf Tour’s Mynavi ABC Championship. He finished at 24 under. ... Thailand’s Sarit Suwannarut won the Asian Tour’s Volvo China Open, closing with an 8-under 64 for a six-stroke victory. He finished at 19 under. ... Phoenix Campbell became the first amateur to win the Queensland PGA Championship. The 22-year-old Australian shot a 5-under 67 for a one-stroke victory over seven players in the PGA Tour of Australasia event. ... Neil Schietekat won the Sunshine Tour’s Vodacom Origins of Golf Finals by two strokes, closing with a 5-under 67. ... Patrik Sjoland won the Farmfoods European Senior Masters in Spain for his first Legends Tour title. The 52-year-old Swede finished with a 5-under 68 for a one-stroke victory.
AP golf: 
https://apnews.com/hub/golf
