Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
Leaders of the Group of Seven wealthy democracies are holding a 
summit in Sicily
 , where President Donald Trump is cast as a potential spoiler-in-chief.
President Trump is calling North Korea a “world problem,” but he says it “will be solved, you can bet on that.” Trump was meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe before the G-7 summit.
Republican 
Greg Gianforte
 emerged as the state’s new congressman, winning a special election a day after he was charged with assault for throwing a reporter to the ground.
A lawyer for President Trump’s son-in-law and adviser says Jared Kushner is willing to cooperate with federal investigators looking into ties between Russia and the Trump campaign.
Police investigating the Manchester Arena bombing have arrested a ninth man, while extra security is being added for major British sporting events this weekend.
In a case that illustrates how military impunity seeps into U.N. peacekeeping missions, an AP investigation examines how a Sri Lankan general dogged by war crimes allegations was sent to Haiti to investigate a rape accusation against a countryman. He didn’t interview the victim or medical staff, and cleared the soldier.
More and more middle-age and older Americans say Medicare should cover the costs of long-term care for older adults, according to a poll conducted by the Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research.

        
    
After escaping seven prior execution dates, 75-year-old inmate Tommy Arthur was put to death Friday, after years of litigation challenging the state’s lethal injection procedure.
Familiar faces return: 
LeBron James
 leads the Cleveland Cavaliers to another NBA Finals showdown with the playoff-perfect 
Warriors
 , while the Pittsburgh Penguins are back in the 
Stanley Cup Finals
 .
“Homer at the Bat” first aired 25 years ago, with an All-Star lineup that included Ken Griffey Jr., Darryl Strawberry and a clucking Roger Clemens. The Baseball Hall of Fame is paying tribute with an exhibit and playful ceremony.
