The family of a man who "spread happiness everywhere" has paid tribute after he died in the River Wye.Jake Jones had been out with his friends on 20 May when he fell into the water in Gloucestershire.The 20-year-old "loved life" and had lots of friends where he lived in Sedbury, Gloucestershire, his mother Louise said.  "He loved everyone and he was loved by everyone he met," she said. 
Mrs Jones, 44, and dad Shane Phillips, 37, from Sedbury, issued a joint statement saying:  "Jake was not the life and soul of the party, he was the party."Jake will be forever the boy who danced when he walked. We love you, Mum and Dad."
Jake was found by a member of the public six days after he went into the water, on 26 May.The body was recovered by coastguards and, although formal identification had not yet taken place, the man's family and the coroner had been informed, police said.Jake's older sister, Paige Jones, 25, said she would "forever love him"."To live in a world without my beautiful brother Jake, is unimaginable. Jake was the life and soul of the party," she said."He was kind, funny and stubborn, and he was my everything."My children adored him and I have promised to never stop speaking his name. I will forever love him with everything in me, and I will forever live with a broken heart, and will keep his memory alive."Sleep tight baby brother, until we meet again."
Jake, who worked at Hayes Catering, was very close with his little sister, Millie Phillips, six. She said: "He was my big brother. He always cared for people and that was Jake. I love him forever and ever and nothing will come between us."Older brother, Cory Jones, 27, said Jake was one of his best friends."I will always miss his cheeky smile and him being here by my side," he said. "He was always up to no good at work, yet no one could resist his smile."Brother-in-law, Cai England, 32, said he would be "forever grateful of the memories they shared". "If there is anyone dancing in the afterlife it will be you," he said.  "You were always loved."Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
