DETROIT (AP) — Andrew Copp scored 1:34 into overtime and the New York Rangers extended their winning streak to four games by beating the Detroit Red Wings 5-4 on Wednesday night.
Artemi Panarin had a goal and assisted on two others, including Copp’s winner, as New York swept back-to-back road games beginning with Tuesday night’s big victory over division rival Pittsburgh.
The Rangers rallied from 2-1, 3-2 and 4-3 deficits against Detroit.
“I expected us not to be the same as last night,” coach Gerard Gallant said. “You want to be the same, the players want to be the same, but it’s just not the same atmosphere. We got off to a bit of a rough start and it was a lot of back-and-forth.”
Chris Kreider scored his 46th goal overall and NHL-high 24th on the power play. Ryan Reaves and Filip Chytil also scored for the Rangers, and Alexandar Georgiev made 22 saves.
“It was huge for us,” Georgiev said. “The guys were really good today, they bailed me out. Not the best game for me, but they kept scoring every time the other team got the lead.”
Michael Rasmussen, Jakub Vrana, Tyler Bertuzzi and Adam Erne scored for Detroit, and Moritz Seider added two assists. Alex Nedeljkovic stopped 29 shots, but the Red Wings lost their fourth straight.
Detroit allowed 11 goals to Pittsburgh in its previous outing.
“Our last game was definitely not the way we need to play hockey — not even close — and there was a lot of discussion about that in our locker room,” Red Wings captain Dylan Larkin said. “I think a lot of guys cared about that and we came out and played hard tonight.”

        
    
Reaves scored an unassisted goal after a Detroit turnover 3:23 into the game. Rasmussen tied it midway through the first period and Vrana scored on a power play, his seventh goal in 11 games since returning from shoulder surgery. Chytil evened it 2-all before the period ended by deflecting Patrik Nemeth’s shot from the point.
Bertuzzi’s power-play goal 29 seconds into the second was answered by Panarin at 12:15. Panarin scored his 18th goal from the right circle to tie it 3-apiece.
“We’ve had a lot of games like that this season,” Panarin said. “We turned a lot (of games) this season to our side and that gives us confidence, but we can’t play like that. We have to play better right away.”
Erne scored his fifth goal this season and first in 25 games at 5:56 of the third to put the Red Wings back on top, 4-3. He fired in a rebound of Marc Staal’s shot.
Kreider’s shot from the right side with 3:38 left in regulation tied it again.
“At the end of the day, we have to find a way to kill that penalty,” Red Wings coach Jeff Blashill said. “That’s just the reality of it. Right now, we’re not doing a good enough job at that and it is hard to never take any penalties.”
NOTES: The Rangers have won 11 games this month, their most ever in March. ... Panarin has at least one point in 13 of 15 career games against the Red Wings. ... The Rangers have played 37 road games, most in the NHL. ... Detroit D Danny DeKeyser, who missed the previous 10 games due to an upper-body injury, had an assist in the first period.
Rangers: Host the rival New York Islanders on Friday night.
Red Wings: Host the Ottawa Senators on Friday.
More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
