A funeral director is being investigated "following a report received of concern for care of the deceased", Humberside Police said.
Officers are in attendance at three branches of Legacy Independent Funeral Directors in Hull and Beverley.
A force spokesperson said it received a report on Wednesday and inquiries were continuing "to ascertain the exact details, concern and circumstances".
Detectives invited anyone worried about the investigation to contact them.
Cordons have been put in place at the firm's premises in Hessle Road and Anlaby Road in Hull, and Beckside in Beverley. 
"At this stage, we don't believe these to be connected to any other Legacy Funeral Directors," police said.
Det Ch Supt Simon Gawthorpe said: "Whilst we are in the very early stages of our investigation, I completely understand this information will be of concern to a number of families and individuals who have lost loved ones and have utilised the services of this business.
"We have already been in contact with a number of people and are working closely with His Majesty's Coroner, Hull City Council and East Riding Council to establish the facts.
"I would encourage anyone to please call us, as we are very mindful of the distress this [investigation] may cause. 
"A direct telephone line has been established for anyone who is worried or wants to speak to us about Legacy Independent Funeral Directors."
The detective said an investigation was continuing "to understand the precise nature of what may have occurred and if any criminal offences have taken place".
He also called for people to be "respectful and refrain from speculation".
"...At the core of this investigation will potentially be heartbroken and devastated families and loved ones and we want to provide them with the consideration and support they need and are fully entitled to," he added.
The police force has set up two helpline numbers for anyone worried about the news - one from within the UK and one for people who are abroad.
According to its website, Legacy Independent Funeral Directors is a family-run business that was established in 2010.
The company has been contacted for comment.
Follow BBC East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastyorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
