Losing their home to a flood was the last thing JoAnn Breitling thought her family would go through.
Breitling, 67, and her husband, Sam, 72, are retired. They take care of their 34-year-old son, Matthew, who has Down syndrome.
In addition to Down syndrome, Matthew has an autoimmune disease called achalasia, which he was diagnosed with at a hospital in Kingwood. Kingwood’s medical resources were among the factors in the Breitlings’ decision to live there.
They rented a house in Kingwood and loved the community.
“We fell in love with St. Martha Parish, and we found a young woman who is our son’s age also at St. Martha, and they live two doors away,” Breitling said. “I felt like God had brought us here. I decorated the house and made it a home. We were so happy.”
The Breitlings were rescued by boat during the flooding in Kingwood. The house they rented took on about five feet of water, which damaged the furniture. Like many people affected by Harvey in the area, they did not have flood insurance.
Breitling said as of Oct. 3, she and her family were still staying in a hotel, and she hoped FEMA would extend their ability to stay there for a couple more weeks. FEMA approved them for some financial assistance to find a place to live, she said, but would not replace the possessions that were lost.
Having been uprooted from a place they love, and with uncertainty about their future, she feels it will take a miracle for them to restart their lives.

        
    
“I cry six to seven times a day remembering life before Harvey,” she said. “We went to confession every Saturday and Mass every Sunday. I walked the pond every day with Sadie our dog. We can’t ever go back and right now we are afraid to go forward.”
At their age, she said she and her husband are not comfortable taking out loans, and trying to find the best place to live and restart their lives has been difficult for them.
“Matthew keeps talking about ‘when are we going home’ and he doesn’t understand we don’t have a home to go to yet,” Breitling said. “I don’t think he understands his room is not there. Sometimes I don’t understand.
“We’ll have to make it work ?• try to find a situation that feels like home and try to find some joy.”
Ideally, the family would like to stay in the Kingwood area.
“Our hearts were there,” Breitling said. “I’m going to miss Sunday night dinners on the outdoor patio after Mass. So many parts of our lives I don’t know if we can recreate, or where to begin. That’s something we’re still trying to figure out. Where we’re going to live.”
Despite their difficult situation, Breitling realizes they are not alone in their struggles.
“We’re not the only ones,” Breitling said. “There’s many stories like ours.”
Bernice Satterwhite and her husband stood in a line at the Sept. 28 Harvey recovery information meeting in Kingwood, waiting to talk to a FEMA representative about their options moving forward having lost their home and possessions in the flood.
“We have had an adjuster come by twice and an inspector, but we have no knowledge of what the value of the loss is, except for it’s a total loss ?• we know that,” Satterwhite said. “We’re going to try to find out as much as we can, in terms of things to help us get ahead.”
Before Harvey, the couple took care of her 103-year-old mother, Georgia Mitchell, who lived with them in their Kingwood home of 14 years.
“We did have insurance,” Satterwhite said. “We were told when we bought the house 14 years ago we didn’t need it because we weren’t in a flood zone. But we insisted anyway, so we had that.”
Before the flooding occurred, the Satterwhites drove to their son’s home, which is also in Kingwood. They feared if they waited, the roads would close and they wanted to ensure they had enough time to safely move Mitchell, who has limited mobility.
Satterwhite said her son’s house is getting crowded.
“We now have four adults, two children, an invalid, two dogs and two caregivers, so we’ve had to change the schedule of the caregivers, and make some changes in order to try to get some kind of normality for everybody,” Satterwhite said.
Uncertainty for the future has pushed the family to decide Mitchell will need to be placed in a nursing home.
Mitchell was scheduled to move into a nursing home Monday, Oct. 9. Satterwhite anticipates the nursing home will end up being a permanent living arrangement for her 103-year-old mother.
Even though they had flood insurance, Satterwhite said they lost everything in their home and do not yet know the total cost of the damage.
As of Oct. 5, they have yet to receive specifics about the assessed cost of damage they sustained from flooding or details on getting a grant to help with recovery efforts.
“You want to rebuild, but you need to know what to expect financially,” Satterwhite said.
They have been told they may receive the information in five to seven days.
“We’re just taking it one day at a time,” Satterwhite said. “That’s about all you can do.”
A consistent recommendation made by professionals across different agencies is to apply for Federal Emergency Management Agency first because it takes time for applications to process, and people who wait to apply will have to wait longer to receive assistance.
FEMA and the SBA
Susan Miles, with FEMA’s individual assistance program, said assistance is contingent upon exhausting a number of other financial resources.
The applicant must first get what they can from flood insurance, if their home had flood insurance. Once that resource is exhausted, people can apply for a Small Business Administration loan.
The SBA lends as much as $40,000 for renters to replace personal property lost due to flooding, and up to $200,000 to homeowners for home repairs.
Applicants can be referred back to FEMA if they are not eligible for a loan.
“If there’s still needs, we help cover that as well as rental assistance and housing for temporary shelters and things like that,” Miles said during the Harvey recovery information meeting in Kingwood on Thursday, Sept. 28.
As far as FEMA assistance for renters like Breitling and her husband, people can be eligible for assistance with disaster expenses like loss of personal property, transportation, moving and storage expenses, said FEMA representative Bob Howard.
There are some people who, after Harvey, are in need of medical resources they no longer have access to. Loretta Bonds with FEMA’s disability division, said the division works with people with a functional need or disability.
“There are many organizations we partner up with in any disaster throughout the community to assist with donations and help any who lost their medicine, caretaker, or maybe they lost their transportation – whatever it is that has caused them to have excess functional needs ?• anything hindering you, we try to assist with,” Bonds said.
She said everything is determined on a case-by-case basis to see what can be done to assist people with their specific needs.
“There are so many needs and so many people are in different situations,” Bonds said.
For more information about FEMA, or applying for disaster assistance, visit www.fema.gov or www.disasterassistance.gov.
For in-person FEMA and Small Business Administration consultations, visit the temporary Disaster Relief Center at the Humble Senior Activity Center at 1401 S. Houston Avenue. The center is open Monday through Saturday from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m., and Sunday from 12 to 5 p.m.
Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund
The city of Houston and Harris County created a consolidated fund to benefit people at the local level who were affected by flooding from Hurricane Harvey. The Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund focuses on providing flood victims with help for things that government programs may not address.
“I am especially sensitive to seniors, people with special needs, people (whose homes) didn’t have flood insurance … and people have been very generous in respect to the relief fund that we are doing,” Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner said during the meeting Thursday, Sept. 28.
“We decided it didn’t make sense for the city to have one (relief fund), and the county to have one, so we simply consolidated, and one of the provisions of that fund is you cannot use the dollars on any governmental program operation … it’s to benefit those people who have been directly impacted ?• seniors being one of the very special groups.”
On Oct. 3, the Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund named 28 local nonprofits to which it will distribute the first round of local relief fund grants.
The grants total $7.55 million, which is approximately 10 percent of the fund’s donation total. The nonprofits will use the funds to help those who were impacted by flooding by offering needed services and assistance.
Of the organizations that were chosen for the grants, approximately 40 percent of funds went to large organizations and almost 60 percent was given to more locally focused nonprofits.
Humble Area Assistance Ministries is one of the 28 nonprofits chosen for this first round of grants.
Humble Area Assistance Ministries
HAAM’s executive director Millie Garrison said there is a big need to fill in the area.
In addition to the Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund Greater Houston Community Foundation grant, HAAM has other funding sources, including United Way funds.
“Some of the grants require low income, and some do not,” Garrison said. “Some people didn’t qualify for FEMA, or didn’t have insurance ?• we have several different pots designated for several different qualifying groups.
“Every pot has different restrictions, so we’re going case-by-case to figure out which best fits the family’s needs,” Garrison said.
Those seeking assistance may meet with case managers who can help determine a person’s needs and options.
HAAM is conducting scheduled appointments only in the mornings Monday through Friday, and walk-ins in the afternoon. Because of the overwhelming need, Garrison said lines have been long and HAAM is experiencing a high call volume. Callers are encouraged to follow prompts and leave a voice message.
“We’re working as quickly as possible to process applications,” Garrison said.
When meeting with a case worker, people should bring FEMA paperwork. Those who are not yet registered with FEMA are encouraged to do so. People should also bring documentation proving identity, place of residence, occupancy, and proof of damage, or whatever need they are seeking assistance with, for example an electricity bill if someone is seeking help paying their bill because they were out of work due to flooding.
To contact Humble Area Assistance Ministries, call 281-446-3663 and follow the prompts.
The chairman of the relief fund advisory board, Tony Chase, stated in a news release the committee “placed a particular focus on the critical need for temporary housing throughout the region.”
The nonprofit organizations have 90 days to put the funds.
The news release specifies the allocation of these initial funds mostly going toward “temporary housing, rental assistance and other financial assistance to storm victims. The remaining portion will help provide food to flood victims, along with case management to help them navigate the various governmental and insurance processes.”
Over the course of the next few weeks, the relief fund advisory board will be collaborating with the Greater Houston Community Foundation to outline the criteria and create an application process moving forward in the coming rounds of grant funding.
For information about the services offered by the nonprofits chosen for the first round of grants, call 211.
To donate to the relief fund, visit www.houstonrecovers.org.
