Councillors have again approved plans for hundreds of homes on farmland and allotments in Dorset.
The application by Wyatt Homes for 490 properties off Blandford's bypass was previously approved in October.
It had been brought back before councillors due to changes in government guidelines.
Planning officers said the benefits of the proposals "outweigh the negative points".
But the approved plans are also being considered by the Secretary of State Michael Gove because of likely landscape impacts.
The application asked for full planning consent for 150 homes, as well as outline permission for a further 340.
The scheme is also likely to include shops, commercial space, sports pitches, a primary school, a pub and cafe.
It was reconsidered by councillors because of changes in the government's guidelines over housing targets and changes to the way Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty, known now as National Landscape Areas, are treated.
The site is to the north and east of the Blandford bypass and does include an area of protected landscape.
The 37 hectares are divided by Salisbury Road with part of the site within the Cranborne Chase National Landscape.
Speakers against the proposal included Richard Burden from the Cranborne Chase National Landscape area, who said concreting over protected landscape did nothing for the principles of avoiding harm and enhancing the area.
Rupert Hardy, chair of Dorset Campaign to Protect Rural England (CPRE), said the latest housing figures meant there was no need for the homes in the area.
North Dorset MP Simon Hoare, who is a local government minister, said he had come to a planning committee for the first time since 2015 to object to granting an application - reminding councillors that the proposal was contrary to current policies as it stands.
But while the planning officer's report from October acknowledged there was "a conflict" with the council's development plan, it said this was balanced against a number of benefits, which included land for a school, 30% affordable housing and highways improvements.
Blandford Forum town council is also in favour of the proposals.
A decision is expected to be made by the Secretary of State Michael Gove by the end of the month.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk.
