A woman and her two sons have been found dead in a house in south-east London.
The Met says Nadja De Jager, 47, Alexander, nine, and Maximus, seven, were found in Mayfield Road, Belvedere, on Thursday morning.
The force says it is not seeking anyone in connection with its investigation.
Det Insp Ollie Stride said: "This is a deeply sad case and we are continuing to establish the circumstances that led to this tragic incident."
The children's school paid tribute to the two brothers, saying they were "loving and caring".
Belvedere Infant and Junior School said the boys were "model pupils", adding that it was "clear that they were each other's best friend".
The police said officers forced entry into the property after being called about concerns for the welfare of the occupants at the address at around 11:50 GMT.
The victims' family has been informed and are being supported by specialist officers. A post-mortem examination will be held in due course.
A heavy media presence has descended on this leafy street, which is a stone's throw from Franks Park. 
Officers in this part of Bexley are knocking on doors and speaking to neighbours to try to piece together exactly what might have happened - although most people here are not speaking to journalists. 
Forensic teams have been searching a vehicle outside this semi-detached house, which is now a crime scene. 
A wheelie bin has also been taken inside for analysis.
Det Insp Stride said: "I would like to thank the local community for their co-operation while our officers go about their inquiries.
"Our thoughts today are very much with the family as they struggle to come to terms with their loss and we ask that their privacy be respected at this extremely difficult time."
London Ambulance Service said a medic was sent out in a fast-response car, along with two incident response officers, but the woman and two boys were pronounced dead at the scene. 
A crime scene cordon remains in place, Scotland Yard said.
Follow BBC London on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hellobbclondon@bbc.co.uk
