Concerns have been raised by farmers over the "extensive damage" to their land caused by illegal poachers and hare coursers.
Offenders in the Mendips have allegedly churned up crop fields, damaged fences and released livestock onto roads.
Local farmers have said Avon and Somerset Police is not doing enough to tackle the ongoing problem.
A spokesperson for the force said they are offering crime prevention tips and advice so farmers can report incidents.
Many farmers in the local area are part of a group chat which is used to alert one another of any suspicious activity on their land.
Jon King is a land owner and a member of the group. 
He said the problem has been ongoing for a number of years, but it is has recently become "particularly bad".
Mr King said one man who lives nearby found a dead deer outside his property, just hours after torch lights were spotted shining on farmland.
"We're fed up. We've got animals wandering around the roads and somebody is going to get killed - that's something that really concerns us.
"It's a continual cost burden to us for all their nuisance," he added. 
Mr King praised the "fantastic help" of Avon and Somerset Police's rural crime team, but criticised the force for failing to send enough resources or taking action too slowly.
Rural affairs Sgt Katie Maun said the force is training different members of staff so that they are able to help those affected by poachers.
she also highlighted the effectiveness of the farming community's networking, and urged them to continue reporting any criminal activity.
"I'm really championing, trying to get all of this information together, mapping it out and then I'm able to push for resources in that area,"she said.
"For a long time now, rural areas have really suffered with resourcing because the threat and harm risk of issues happening in more urban areas brings the officers there, and I just want to prove a point that the issues are just as dangerous in the countryside, if not more. 
"There's a lot more at stake for those criminals potentially, if we use the right legislation."
Follow BBC West on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: bristol@bbc.co.uk 
