As the UK is blasted by Artic winds, many of us will be opting for our thickest coats when we venture outside. But what about our pets?
Here are some tips for looking after your furry friends during this cold spell. 
Like humans, animals can be at risk of hypothermia if they become too cold.
Veterinary charity PDSA advises giving dogs and cats extra blankets for their beds over the winter months. Raised beds can keep older dogs away from draughts, while cats may like high-up dens.
The charity also recommends extra playtime for pets to make sure they keep active if they are spending less time outside. Indoor toys can help.
Dogs still need walks during cold weather. Usually, their fur will keep them warm.
But some dogs, particularly those with shorter fur, will need extra help staying warm on their walkies. 
 "[You should consider a coat] if you're dog is very young, very old, or if they're very underweight for a medical reason," PDSA vet Dr Catherine Burke tells BBC News. 
"Some dog breeds are naturally more lean as well."
She adds that coats and jumpers should should be fitted comfortably, so they can move freely.
The RSPCA advises keeping dogs away from iced over ponds and lakes - which could break under a dog's weight. 
It also warns owners to wash their paws thoroughly after walking in areas that may have been gritted with rock salt, which can be poisonous to pets. 
Smaller pets such as rabbits, guinea pigs and ferrets can also feel the cold. 
The PDSA says a sudden drop in temperatures can be a shock to the system for the animals, and advises moving them if they live in hutches outside. 
Dr Burke says: "A shed or car-free garage is ideal for protecting them from the draught, rain or snow. A cooler room is better . 
"If you don't have that, maybe a room where you can turn the radiators off where it's a bit cooler - not a big jump from the outdoor to indoor temperature."
If there is no other option, the charity advises placing a blanket or piece of carpet over their outside living quarters.
Our feline furry friends love to roam the outdoors, but ideally they should stay inside overnight during cold weather. 
But if your pet is determined to explore the weather despite the snow and cold, the PDSA advises you ensure they can get back inside your home through a cat flap, or have warm shelter they can go to. 
During the day, cats should be given the choice to go out if they're used to going outside. 
