Welcome to this week’s edition of Friday Playlist where members of the Times-Tribune staff submit their music picks based on a theme. Since today is Black Friday, this week’s theme is Black. Enjoy: Metallica - Fade to Black Pat McKenna Metallica is all about black. Steely Dan - Black Friday Pat McKenna Well, it’s Black Friday. Alannah Myles - Black Velvet Gia Mazur Ugh. What a perfect name for this song because Alannah Myles’s smoky vocals sound like luxurious crushed velvet. The visuals of a beautiful little boy in the south who grows up to be a heartbreakingly handsome man who drive women crazy (Elvis Presley) is cool but I’m OBSESSED with her voice. Hands down, this is one of my favorite karaoke/car songs. The Beatles - Baby’s in Black John Cole A bummer tune from the Fab Four’s bummer album. Louis Armstrong - Black and Blue John Cole Cold empty bed, springs hard as lead Feel like ol’ Ned, wished I was dead. What did I do to be so black and blue. Jarvis Cocker - Black Magic Ted Baird I’ve got to admit it... I’m a fan of sampling. especially when I like the original and the new creation. I love the intensity Jarvis harnesses from Crimson and Clover. Larkin Poe - Black Betty Jim Haggerty Sisters Rebecca and Megan Lovell, as Larkin Poe, do a killer version of this old work song, sometimes attributed to Lead Belly. Ram Jam had a hit with this number. Rolling Stones - Paint It Black Rebecca Kivak First song I thought of for the theme. The sitar riff is a classic. A French version of the song is played in “Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby.” Rancid - Time Bomb Ed Pikulski It’s all about punk/ska fashion choices: “Black coat, white shoes, black hat, Cadillac Yeah! The boy’s a time bomb” You can probably get a Black Friday deal on all of those things. Leonard Cohen - You Want It Darker Jon O’Connell I’m breaking rank again picking a song that doesn’t exactly address the theme, but if I had to pick a color that describes the title track on Leonard Cohen’s final album, it’d be black. The Beatles - Blackbird Chad Sebring Absolutely in my Top 5 Beatles songs 
