ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) — On their second opportunity, the Orlando Magic ended Atlanta’s win streak.
Tobias Harris got a leaning, 13-foot jumper to rattle in at the buzzer, giving the Magic a 100-99 victory Saturday night that snapped the Hawks’ nine-game winning streak.
Harris finished with 20 points, Evan Fournier added 19 and Nik Vucevic 18. The win came in the second game of the back-to-back after Atlanta’s victory at home on Friday.
“That’s a shot I’m capable of making,” Harris said. “Coach (Jacque Vaughn) drew up the play and my teammates trust me to take that shot, and to make it.”
The game was tight throughout, featuring 10 ties and 15 lead changes. The Magic had 10 first-quarter turnovers, but just five the rest of the game.
After succumbing Friday in a game that was as equally back-and-forth, it appeared Orlando was headed toward the same fate after Kyle Korver’s 3-pointer with 3.4 seconds left gave Atlanta a one-point lead.
But Harris was able to create enough space in the final play to put a cap on a solid second-half effort by the Magic.
“We needed this one. When we got off the plane I told everybody we’re going to get this win, and I told myself all morning and all afternoon,” Harris said. “It was the mindset we had.”
The 13th lead change of the night, on a layup by Fournier, put the Magic up 95-94 with just over a minute to play. Victor Oladipo was fouled and stretched it out to three points with a pair of free throws.

        
    
Jeff Teague was fouled and connected on two free throws of his own on the other end to get it back to a point.
The Hawks had Fournier trapped in the backcourt, but he was able to get it ahead to Harris, who was fouled. But he only got one of two, giving the ball back to Atlanta.
Out of timeout, Korver then connected on his a deep 3-pointer to put Atlanta back on top at 99-98, setting up Harris’ final shot.
Teague had 24 points, leading six Hawks players in double figures. Al Horford added 18 and Korver 11.
“It was one hell of an NBA game,” Hawks coach Mike Budenholzer said. “Both teams made big plays. I’m proud of our guys, the way they competed. I think offensively we’ve got to get a little bit better. We’ve got to attack more. We’ve got to get in the paint. But, it was a heck of a game.”
Vucevic returned to action for the Magic after missing six games with a strained lower back. He didn’t show any residual effects from the injury and made an immediate impact, scoring 12 points and grabbing six rebounds in the first half.
The Magic trailed just 48-47 at the half, but the problem early was early turnovers.
The Hawks shot just 42 percent (19 for 45) in the first half, but spread out their scoring with four different players scoring at least eight points by halftime.
TIP-INS
Hawks: Atlanta had 19 assists on 35 field goals. The Hawks entered Saturday recording assists on 67.1 percent of their made baskets, which led the NBA.
Magic: Fournier has made a 3-pointer in 31 consecutive games. ... Saturday marked only the 13th time in 26 seasons that the Magic have played the home-and-home, back-to-back.
While the Hawks’ overall winning streak ended, Korver was 6 for 6 at the free throw line to extend his made streak to 44 consecutive. The franchise record is 47, set by Tom McMillen in 1978-79. Korver’s career-best streak is also 47.
Hawks: Host Chicago on Monday.
Magic: Visit Toronto on Monday.
Follow Kyle Hightower on Twitter at 
http://www.twitter.com/khightower
