Two young girls killed alongside their parents in a crash involving a car and motorbike have been named by police.Nine-year-old Rubie Morgan-Roller and four-year-old Lillie Morgan-Roller died in the incident on the A61 between Wakefield and Barnsley on Sunday, West Yorkshire Police said.Their mother Shannen Morgan and father Shane Roller - who had another daughter, aged 11, together - were also killed while travelling in a Ford Focus.The man and woman on the motorbike also died at the scene, but police are not yet in a position to name them, a force spokesperson said.The crash happened between Staincross and Newmillerdam at about 15:55 BST and the road remains shut between Shaw Lane and Warren Lane.
Mr Roller’s brother, Callum, said in a social media post that his heart had been “ripped into a million pieces”.Callum Roller also said: “It’s absolutely broken my heart and it’s absolutely broken both sides of the families.“You all had a heart of gold and gonna miss you all like crazy… my heart goes out to Shannen's side of the family and mine."Officers remained at the scene on Monday and flowers were left near a wall close to where the road was blocked.
Jamie Phillips, who was among those leaving flowers, said he was friends with Mr Roller. "He was a normal, working lad... a nice kid, he was always smiling. "He was cheerful and loved his family.“I couldn’t sleep all night knowing what had happened... Barnsley is only small so it is going to affect quite a lot of people."Mr Phillips said Mr Roller and Ms Morgan were from Athersley in Barnsley and Mr Roller worked as a delivery driver for a local takeaway. Meanwhile, a friend of Ms Morgan's said in a Facebook post there were “no words to describe the utter loss this has created for family and friends and the community around us”.She added: “My heart is truly broken.”Dean Ingram, production manager at Press Glass in Barnsley, where Mr Roller also worked as a part-time delivery driver, said he had "always found Shane to be a really lovely lad"."Nothing was ever a problem and he always had a smile on his face. He was the type of person who everyone just liked. He will be missed," he added.
In a statement, Clare Storr and Kirsty Wordsworth, co-head teachers of Athersley North Primary School, which Rubie and Lillie attended, described the deaths of the two girls and their parents as "heartbreaking news"." So many people in our communities will feel this devastating, tragic loss," they said.“Rubie was a kind, happy and caring girl with a lovely personality. She always worked really hard and was well-liked by her friends. She was a fantastic role model for her peers and aspired to be a teacher.“Lillie was a bright, bubbly, and happy little girl who was a popular member of her class. She was creative and very determined. Just like her big sister, she, too, aspired to be a teacher."Ms Storr and Ms Wordsworth said both girls were "an asset to the school and a delight to teach", adding that their loss was "a devastating blow to everyone who knew them".“The girls were a credit to their parents, who were always incredibly supportive and who will also be greatly missed," they said.
Security minister Dan Jarvis, MP for Barnsley North, said it was "devastating news".Speaking on X, Mr Jarvis said: "My heartfelt condolences go to the family and friends of those who have tragically lost their lives."Supt Alan Travis, from West Yorkshire Police, said: "This is an absolutely tragic incident which has resulted in the loss of six lives.“Our thoughts go out to the families of those who have died who we are working with to provide support at this time.”The force has also appealed for any witnesses to come forward.
