Two dementia care homes earmarked for closure by a cash-strapped council will stay open, it has been announced.
Kirklees Council had proposed shutting Castle Grange in Huddersfield and Claremont House in Heckmondwike and moving residents to other homes.
Families had threatened legal action against the council over the plan.
The council said it would now seek to transfer them to the independent sector but, if unsuccessful, it would continue to operate them.
The closure plan was made as the authority looks to make savings of more than £47m in next year's budget.
But the council said it had reversed its decision following a 12-week consultation with the homes' residents, families and the public.
It said it meant none of the 42 residents would need to move, adding they "will continue to receive high quality care where they currently live".
Campaigner Helen Plaskett, whose husband John Jackson has been cared for at Claremont House for two years, called the news a "huge relief".
Ms Plaskett, who is part of the Save Our Kirklees Dementia Care Homes Campaign, said: "This has been a massive fight and the decision to keep the homes open hasn't come out of nowhere.
"We suspect if we hadn't campaigned like we had then this would have been a done deal."
BBC Leeds political reporter Gemma Dillon, who has followed the families' campaign, said it had been a "highly emotional few months" for them.
She said: "They often told me they had to speak for their loved ones who had no voice and they feared they wouldn't survive a move to a new care home if the homes were closed.
"The families organised meetings, petitions, and spoke out at full council meetings.
"Some told me that although it took them away from their mums and dads in what could have been the final weeks of their lives, it's something they felt compelled to do."
Kirklees Council leader Cathy Scott said: "I understand how unsettling the last few months have been for residents of both homes and their families. 
"I hope this announcement gives them some peace of mind."
She added that social care across the country was "in crisis" and councils were "facing increasingly painful decisions".
A screeching U-turn that will have thousands of people cheering and putting down their placards, but it does raise a couple of questions. 
How have these care homes been saved? Have Kirklees just found some money down the back of the sofa? Would the extra money announced by the government last week really stretch to fund two care homes?
And if the care homes are staying open, will other stuff be closed? We're asking the council these questions. A good outcome for those involved. But with council funding in the state it is, how long will they stay open for?
Ms Scott said: "Despite this, we have always said that we would prioritise local people who need our help and support most within a very difficult financial position. 
"By continuing to run the two care homes, whilst exploring alternatives to them being operated by the council, we believe we are staying true to that promise."
The council's draft budget for 2024/25 will be published on 5 February.
Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
