The Scottish government has confirmed that no more under-18s will be kept in young offenders institutions by the week beginning 2 September at the latest. The announcement follows the death of a Jonathan Beadle in Polmont Young Offenders Institution on Saturday 13 July. The BBC understands the 17-year-old took his own life in the prison.Two fatal accident inquiries have been held this year into three young people who took their own lives inside Polmont, near Falkirk.
Jonathan Beadle had been in a secure children’s unit before being moved.He was convicted after pleading guilty to a charge of acting in a disorderly manner and having weapons with intent to "assault and murder" a 16-year-old girl.He was awaiting sentence when he sent to Polmont.
Scottish government  minister Siobhian Brown confirmed no more 16 and 17-year-olds will be admitted to Polmont and those already detained in the institution will be moved to child-friendly secure settings. Latest figures say there are currently seven under-18s in the prison.A joint inquiry was held into the deaths of 16-year-old William Brown - also known as William Lindsay – and Katie Allan this year.William had been remanded in custody after being deemed a "potential risk to public safety" three days before his death in 2018 because there was no space in a children's secure unit.He had not been convicted of a crime when he detained at Polmont. Katie Allan, 21, took her own life four months before William. She was convicted for dangerous driving and knocking a boy unconscious and the inquiry heard how she was bullied in prison.And 20-year-old Jack McKenzie took his own life in Polmont three years later in 2021. He had been on remand for rape and sexual assault charges - which he denied - since January of that year.Sheriff Simon Collins has heard both of these inquiries and is expected to issue determinations and recommendations to prevent similar incidents.A fatal accident inquiry will be held into the death of Jonathan Beadle in due course.Victims and community safety minister Siobhian Brown said: “Plans are moving at pace to ensure commencement of these provisions as soon as possible and no later than during the week of 2 September, the week of parliament’s return from summer recess. "There is also ongoing engagement with partners, including the Scottish Prison Service and secure care providers, to enable the transfer of those currently in Polmont in line with commencement of the provisions.”
