A Nottingham man has opened up on the "catastrophic" consequences caused by an Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) medication shortage.
Problems emerged last year, with the government blaming "increased global demand and manufacturing issues".
Richard Minkley said he suffered a "complete personal collapse" after running out.
The government said some issues to improve the supply of ADHD medications have been resolved.
Mr Minkley, 33, said not being able to get hold of medication left him looking for alternative supplies like "some weird junkie".
The symptoms of ADHD can include a difficulty concentrating and focusing, hyperactivity, and impulsiveness.
ADHD UK estimates, based on data from the Lancet and the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), that 1.9m adults, roughly 3 to 4% of the UK population, have the condition.
In February, ADHD UK estimated about 150,000 people were experiencing issues with their medication.
Mr Minkley 33, lives in Nottingham city centre and was diagnosed with ADHD in 2021.
He said: "The medication has honestly been life-changing. I feel more like myself on these meds than I have ever done before.
"I can write - and I'm a dyslexic guy who struggles to concentrate - I have never written so much in my life.
"I have healthier routines, I have a healthier diet, and emotionally and socially, things are much more manageable."
But he began struggling to get hold of medication in September.
With his usual pharmacy unable to help, he was left searching for supplies "like some weird junkie".
He said: "It has been catastrophic. Not getting support has led to complex PTSD.
"At its worst, it has meant screaming at people who aren't there; I hit myself over the head, I had a complete personal collapse.
"It's a complete nightmare because you can't be yourself - you just can't cope." 
He had to take time off work, get a new prescription, and then "put myself back together".
He added: "I had been trying to quit nicotine, but the only thing I could do was to either start smoking cigarettes, vaping or just shovelling caffeine into my face because you need the stimulants to keep you going.
"It's an ugly and messy business running out of meds."
Mr Minkley said he was now on an alternative drug but was struggling to get a suitable dose.
He has since left his job and, while struggling for money, has reconnected with friends.
He said: "For a time, I was, in a word, suicidal. Now I have the time to take care of myself."
A Department of Health and Social Care spokesperson said: "We have taken swift action to improve the supply of ADHD medications, and as a result, some issues have been resolved.
"We are working with the respective manufacturers to help resolve remaining issues as soon as possible and have issued advice to healthcare professionals.
"We know that shortages can be distressing for patients and families, and we advise any patient who is worried about their condition to speak to their clinician."
If you've been affected by issues raised in this story, there is information and support available on BBC Action Line.
Follow BBC Nottingham on Facebook, on X, or on Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2210.
