“Both my mother and father passed with cancer, and when I was diagnosed - I was thinking - am I going the same way?”Those are the words of four-time world kickboxing champion Billy Murray, who is no stranger to fighting battles in the ring.For the past four years he has been contending with a different opponent – and one that is known to many – as he has been receiving treatment for bowel cancer.He kept his diagnosis private until now.But a new documentary about his life called Billy Murray…in his Own Words has revealed the details of his illness. 
“Very few people know what I’ve been through over the past few years," he said."I was diagnosed in 2020 with stage four bowel cancer. I’m still suffering from it – I’m battling it – and I’m hopefully ahead of the game plan.“When I was first diagnosed, I was afraid I was going to go the same way as my parents – I was with them every step of the way in their cancer journeys and it’s a horrible sight.“I am quite a strong and focused person because of training all the time – so I put that mentality into myself and said I’m going to beat this.”
Belfast filmmaker Jim Crone made the film, and it was not only Billy’s incredible sporting journey that inspired it – but also his positivity and resilience in dealing with his illness.“I’ve known Billy for 40 years. We didn’t know where Billy’s illness was going to go when making the film -  and the horror story that could have unfolded with Billy possibly losing his life. "It could have been the kind of thing showing at a funeral – thankfully not.”
The film not only covers Billy’s kickboxing and health journey,  but also many of his other achievements. He set up the Peace Fighters, to promote peace and respect through combat sports and he has also trained and mentored many other athletes.His motivational qualities are not lost on those who Billy now trains, such as two-time former world amateur kickboxing champion and now professional kickboxer Jay Snoddon.“To put it briefly Mr Murray is my hero," Mr Snoddon said."I’ve been at this gym for seven years and I know the career that he’s had, the ups and the downs, and he has just been an inspiration for me."
There are three main things to look out for:Having these symptoms doesn't necessarily mean it's bowel cancer, but advice is to see a GP if you notice them for three weeks or longer and if things just don't feel right.That means they can be checked out quickly. The earlier cancers are diagnosed, the easier they are to treat.Sometimes bowel cancer can stop waste passing through the bowel and this can cause a blockage. This can bring on severe tummy pain, constipation and sickness. You will need to see your GP or go to your nearest A&E straight away in those circumstances.
