Police have issued a road safety appeal after four people died in two separate motorbike crashes on Sunday.The fatalities take to eight the number of people killed on Scotland's roads in less than 48 hours. Three bikers died in a crash involving two motorbikes -  a Suzuki GSXR and a Kawasaki ZX1400 -  on the A6088 in the Scottish Borders at about 14:30.The riders, a 37-year-old man, a 29-year-old man and a 23-year-old woman, were pronounced dead at the scene between Bonchester Bridge and Carter Bar.
A 29-year-old woman died in a separate crash 15 minutes later in Argyll and Bute. Two earlier car crashes had claimed the lives of three young men in their 20s near Falkirk, and a 37-year-old man in South Ayrshire. Chief Supt Hilary Sloan, Police Scotland's head of road policing, said every death on the roads was tragic.She added officers also responded to a number of serious non-fatal crashes across the country over the weekend.
Chief Supt Sloan said: "A collision affects more than just you and your car – it impacts your family, the victim’s family, emergency services and people who witness it."I urge every driver and road user to think about their behaviour on the road, be considerate towards others and help us make Scotland’s roads safe for everyone."We all have a responsibility to use our roads safely and to help save lives."Following the crash in the Borders, police said the road was closed but reopened at about 21:30. 
Appealing for witnesses and dashcam footage, Sgt Barry Sommerville said: "Our thoughts are with the family and friends of the three people who died."At about 14:45, police were called to another motorbike crash in Lochgilphead.The woman rider was fatally injured while riding a white Ducati motorbike at the Kilmory roundabout on the A83. She was with three other bikers at the time and was pronounced dead at the scene. The road was closed for around seven hours.Sgt Archie McGuire said his thoughts were with the loved ones of the woman who died.Anyone with information on either crash is urged to contact police.A single-vehicle car crash near Falkirk on Friday evening claimed the lives of three men, aged 21, 23 and 24.  On Saturday the 37-year-old driver of a Land Rover died after another one-vehicle crash on the B734 near Girvan, South Ayrshire. 
Motorcycle instructor Tom Prentice said road users face a "battle for tarmac" due to the number of bikes and cars on the road.Mr Prentice, who is based in Selkirk, said riders were often surprised by the winding roads in the Borders.He told BBC Scotland News: "If you are coming from the city into the Borders, we have really twisty roads. That’s the attraction for most people."It’s very scenic, and you have to watch where you are going while appreciating that."The instructor warned road surfaces "change tremendously", which is of added significance to those on two wheels.Mr Prentice said: "If you haven’t inspected it, you shouldn’t be riding on it."So just check the surface and plan what you are going to do."
