Whether you already have flood insurance or are looking into getting a new policy, make sure it covers what you need, attorneys and experts advise.
It is also important to know what constitutes catastrophic damage when a disaster hits, they said.
“You’re looking for catastrophic damage if you’re the insurance company adjuster because you’re expecting to see significant hurricane damage,” Merlin Law Group Senior Attorney Javier Delgado said. “Not all hurricane damage is significant or catastrophic and you have to be able to identify what’s hurricane damage versus what’s catastrophic hurricane damage.”
Immediate aftermath
Kings Forest Village resident Bruce Wise was one of the many residents in the Kingwood area whose home was flooded by Harvey. His two-story home sustained 30 inches of rain.
He has not been able to move back into his home in the aftermath of Harvey. Wise did have flood insurance for years prior to Hurricane Harvey but is now having problems with his insurance company because of he was not able to show all the damages to his home when an adjuster came to inspect.
Lamont said there is no law preventing Wise from walking with the adjuster around a property to investigate damage.
“My major issue was I wasn’t able to walk (with the adjuster) to the property,” Wise said. “I didn’t know the rules to the game, if it were to ever happen to me again, which God I hope so not, it would be a whole different ballgame from the way I handled it (before).”

        
    
Wise said he has paid over $7,500 in flood insurance for over two decades.
“Now I need something and yes the (insurance company) paid me a partial (amount) but then I’ve been having to push and push and push and nothing is coming easy here. … To me you shouldn’t have to do that.”
Wise said he hopes to move in back to his home by the end of July if all the repairs are done on time.
“To start off kind of strong and as time goes on fewer people show up to the point where maybe there’s one person there or nobody there for a week or week and a half and it doesn’t matter if it’s painting, or if it’s framing or your doing electrician work or plumbing,” Wise said. “All these kinds of skills are necessary and everybody wants to satisfy everybody and I understand that. … Something’s happening but it’s not happening fast enough for all of us.”
When inspecting your home due to a natural disaster, such as flooding or a fire, take as many pictures as possible of any damages before temporarily fixing the damages and filing a claim with your insurance company promptly.
Aside from the obvious damage to your property also look for hidden damage such as water intrusion from small fractures, inner-ply asphalt displacement, fracturing of the roof and damages to the insulation.
D.A. Lamont Public Adjusters CEO Don Lamont said the most important thing to do is have a vast amount of evidence of damage. Having an infared camera also helps, he said.
“The type of camera you use is really important because the ones you buy for you know $1.99 — they don’t measure it properly,” Lamont said. “It will tell you where moisture is, it’s like an x-ray. Getting that data early is so important.”
After properly storing the evidence of the damages, policy holders should get acquainted with the intricacies of their plan, Lamont said.
“I think misunderstanding (insurance) policies is the biggest thing where we see a problem,” Lamont said. “They don’t understand what they’re really purchasing. They feel like they’re being covered, that everything is going to get taken care of and then they find out that there’s a lot of problems.”
Delgado said adjusters also determine what was damaged to the property due to a natural disaster and what was damaged before the event.
The senior attorney said policy holders should always get a second opinion. Estimates are heavily swayed by experience, he said. And after a natural disaster some of the adjusters are inexperienced, he said.
“Insurance companies were short on adjusters (during Harvey), believe it or not. While a lot of those adjusters unfortunately were not adjusters two weeks before,” Delgado said. “They went to a training program and they were trained for about four days and showing pictures of catastrophic damage. So by the time they go look at your property, if it doesn’t look like what they saw they don’t think it’s hurricane damage because they don’t have a lot of experience.”
Delgado explains about the FEMA Dwelling Form. This form is issued to homeowners, residential renters and condominium unit-owners or owners of residential buildings containing 2 to 4 units.
Also part is FEMA is the National Flood Insurance Program to help out private and public structures that have been flood by providing insurance.
Under the NFIP, residential building properties can be covered up to $250,000, residential personal property up to $100,000 and commercial buildings up to $500,000.
National Flood Insurance Programs can be bought through several insurance agencies nationwide.
If your insurance agent does not sell flood insurance, contact the NFIP Help Center at 800-427-4661.
[email protected]
