Jersey Airport's customer services are going through a series of changes to improve experiences for passengers.
Ports of Jersey, which manages the airport, has created an operations centre and customer experience team to get travel information out quicker.
The changes will bring together people who manage day-to-day operations into a central base and enable information to be shared in real-time.
Airport bosses said the team will also be more visible around the terminal.
As part of the changes, the airport's current information desk will be removed, although the special assistance desks will remain.
Ashley Maggs, deputy airport director, said the new team, which also have new uniforms, will be a much better alternative to the current information desk, and travellers will be able to get help at any stage of their journey.
He said: "That's right from the moment you enter the airport, from the parking, when you enter the departures hall, then when you get your ticket and then through to security, on to the concessions, right the way through to the gates."
About 7,000 passengers pass through the airport daily at busy times.
Robert Mackenzie, managing director of travel firm CI Travel Group welcomed the changes, but said some concerns remain, particularly around arrivals.
He said: "It's cold, it's not very well lit, it's quite outdated and we just need to spend some money brightening the whole thing up, making it welcoming, showing people what they can do when they are in the island in terms of images - there is desperately needed work to be done there."
Mr Maggs also recognised there is work to be done, but is hopefully improvements will continue.
He said: "This is absolutely phase one for us, so our strategic vision is the customer experience. We've put together an internal task group that are looking at ways to improve and coming up with a plan, making sure that they have the lasting impressions of the island when they arrive and when they leave the island as well."
Another change will also see the closure of the airport's Post Office, but its post box will remain in place for passengers to use before heading through security.
Follow BBC Jersey on X (formerly Twitter) and Facebook. Send your story ideas to channel.islands@bbc.co.uk.
