A new concourse, cycling and walking routes are among improvements planned to "transform" London Waterloo station.
The upgrade would make the station easier to navigate, reduce platform congestion and improve access, Lambeth Council and Network Rail said.
Waterloo is England's third busiest transport hub, serving millions every year, the rail operator says. 
The council said it would work with residents, businesses and stakeholders to develop the plans.
The proposals include a new southern concourse and a redesign of the northern concourse. 
They also detailed 40 enhanced walking and cycling routes, more green spaces and an upgrade of the bus and taxi interchange. 
Network Rail chair Lord Peter Hendy of Richmond Hill explained: "London Waterloo is iconic, and one of the busiest stations in the country, and it is imperative this station continues to evolve to ensure it is a world class transport hub and meets the needs of the millions of passengers that use the station each year, today and into the future."
He added there was a "great deal of work to do to progress this forward and find funding".
Lambeth Council leader Claire Holland said the Waterloo and South Bank area was "increasingly a place for business to locate to, and significant, high-quality developments in the pipeline will bring new homes and workspaces".
She said the proposals would allow the council to "harness and shape the investment in Waterloo and South Bank to make sure spaces are safe, accessible, and welcoming for our residents and visitors to the area".
Lambeth Council said its next steps would include working with Network Rail and its partners, residents, businesses, and stakeholders to "refine and develop the proposals".   
The authority added it would invest £1.5m to further develop projects that could deliver key benefits in the short term.
The council said more information about the scheme would be available soon.
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
