A mum has told how her life was turned upside down after an infected toenail turned out to be a rare form of cancer.Donna Bointon, from Middlesbrough, had a toe removed and is undergoing further treatment after being diagnosed with acral melanoma, five years after she first became unwell.According to Cancer Research UK, the rare type of skin cancer is usually found on the palms of the hands, soles of the feet, or under or around your nails.The 46-year-old has shared her story in the hope of warning others of the signs, telling BBC Radio Tees: "It has changed my life, but I can cope."
She added: "Anyone who gets told they have cancer, your first thought is 'I'm going to die'."But then you start thinking, 'God, I need to sort all these things out'."Life insurance, funerals. I was in this little bubble for about three weeks, just trying to organise my full life in case I die."
Warning: Contains sensitive details some people may find distressing
The mother-of-two's right big toe became infected in 2019.She said: "Poison was forming underneath the nail - I thought, 'this isn't right' - so I went to A&E."Her nail was removed but the issues continued and she went back to her GP."It never actually healed but I managed with it, putting a plaster over it and just leaving it, because I was just getting these antibiotics," Miss Bointon told BBC Radio Tees.A scab eventually formed at the side of her nail and an infection was found.When antibiotics did not help, she said doctors referred her to a dermatologist, where a part of the nail was taken out and cancer was detected.
Miss Bointon, who works for the NHS, said she found out her diagnosis on her own at work. "I quickly did my jobs, still in my uniform, [and] ran upstairs to the consultant," she added."The nurse came in and they just told me they're sorry to tell me but it's acral melanoma, it's quite deep, they couldn't tell me how long it's been there, there's a possibility it's spread to the rest of my body."I was like, 'what do you mean a melanoma?'"Miss Bointon had surgery to have her toe amputated, but tests later found the cancer had spread to her lymph nodes. She has urged anyone who has an infected toenail that does not heal to get it checked, and mention acral melanoma to their GP.Despite her diagnosis, Miss Bointon said she remained "positive"."It's only a toe," she added. "It has changed my life, but I can cope."
BBC Sounds: ‘I had no idea my 'bad toe' was a rare cancer’
Cancer Research said only one to three out of every 100 people diagnosed with melanoma (1% to 3%) have acral melanoma.It is the most common type of melanoma in people with brown or black skin, and it is most often diagnosed in middle-aged and older adults.“It’s important that any unusual changes to your skin or nails are checked out by a doctor," a spokesperson said."This could be a new mark or mole, one that is sore, itchy, bleeding or crusty, or it may have even been there for a while and has changed. "If it’s not normal for you, talk to your GP. In most cases it won’t be cancer, but if it is, spotting it early could make all the difference.”
If you're affected by any of the issues in this article you can find details of organisations who can help via the BBC Action Line.
Follow BBC Tees on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk.
