A teenager who stabbed another boy to death with a zombie knife at a 16th birthday party has been detained for life.Shane Cunningham, Leo Knight and Cartel Bushnell, whose rights to anonymity were lifted by the judge, fatally stabbed Mikey Roynon during an argument at a house party in Bath, Somerset, on 10 June 2023.Cunningham, 16, was convicted for murder while his two friends, also 16, were convicted for manslaughter after being acquitted of the more serious charge.Bushnell has been detained for nine years and Knight was detained for nine years and six months.
The boys all previously denied murder, but in March 2024, Cunningham was found guilty of murder, while the other two were found guilty of manslaughter.Mr Justice Saini imposed a life sentence at Bristol Crown Court earlier and ordered that Cunningham should serve a minimum term of 16 years custody before he can be considered for parole.
Mikey's mother, Hayley Ryall, cried as her victim impact statement was read out on her behalf in court.In the statement she said she could not bear to look at photos of her son, knowing she would never see his face again.She described feeling like she was living in a film, or in a nightmare and said: “The day my Mikey was killed, my life changed forever.“Christmas used to be magical, but I’ll never celebrate it again.“New Year was the same; how could I look forward to the year ahead without him?”Mikey’s father, Michael Roynon, said in his statement: “I feel so tortured at the loss of my boy...I feel like I have a life sentence."While Mikey's Grandmother Teresa Owen said she would "swap places with Mikey in a heartbeat", if she could.
Over the course of six weeks, the jury at Bristol Crown Court heard how trouble had started at a girls’ 16th birthday party in the Weston area of Bath.The police investigation uncovered CCTV footage of the teenage boys travelling on the bus from Wiltshire to the party.Leo Knight was seen to have a knife hidden in his trousers, visible when he bent over on the bus to the party, Avon and Somerset Police said.
During the trial, jurors heard that Cunningham had stabbed Mikey but claimed he had been acting in self defence. Cunningham alleged that Mikey had swung a knife toward his friends in the host's garden, but it was Mikey who was badly injured. Mikey was left bleeding heavily from a wound to his neck and collapsed on the driveway. The defendants fled the party and later disposed of their weapons and clothing. Avon and Somerset Police said the boys were seen on CCTV talking about what had happened, and the weapon used to kill Mikey was later found by officers in a drain.
Det Insp Mark Newbury, the senior investigating officer for the case, said Mikey's death was as "utterly senseless as it is heart-breaking"."Justice has been served and whilst I am pleased that what we've done is right for Mikey and his family, it does not bring me or my team any satisfaction."So many lives have been ruined by what happened last summer in Bath, including those of the three young boys who are now behind bars."
Mr Newbury said that agencies were working closely together to support young people and understand what leads them to carry a knife.He said officers needed the support of communities and parents in particular in this regard."Please, talk to your children and tell them about Mikey."Tell them how he lost his life because other children his age brought knives to a party."Tell them how they are now locked up and their futures are changed forever."
Follow BBC Bristol on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
