 A father who "lost everything" when his family were killed in a house fire said he was hopeful a renewed appeal and reward could bring closure.
Dr Abdul Shakoor's wife Dr Sabah Usmani, sons Muneeb, nine, and Rayyan, six, and daughter Hira, 12, died in the fire at their Harlow home in 2012.
Son Sohaib, 11, and daughter Maheen, three, died in hospital.
Police are treating their deaths as murder and hope a reward of up to £20,000 will lead to a conviction. 
Dr Shakoor appeared on BBC One's Crimewatch Live earlier, along with the lead detective in the case.
"Obviously it's not easy as I lost my whole family, I lost everything," he told the BBC.
"My life will never be the same again. We hope something good will come out [of the appeal] and we can get some closure." 
The family woke in the early hours of 15 October 2012 at their home in Barn Mead to a loud bang and thick black smoke.  
After calling for help from their bedroom window and being unable to gather his family to safety, Dr Shakoor jumped out of the window to find someone to help.
He suffered severe smoke inhalation.
Firefighters had to physically restrain him from going back into the property to save his loved ones.
Essex Police believes the fire was started deliberately by burglars and it has said the answer lies within the Harlow community.
At the same time as the house fire, a neighbour's car was also alight. Police are connecting the two incidents.
Eleven days later, police discovered Dr Shakoor's laptop bag and a cable, which were dumped in bushes a couple of miles away. The laptop has never been found.
Det Ch Insp Louise Metcalfe said: "This was one of the most tragic events in Essex Police history - where a man has lost his entire family and has never got justice."
A total of seven people have been arrested in connection with the fire but none have ever been charged, Dr Ch Insp Metcalfe explained.
She said there were a number of key aspects in the case police were still seeing answers to, including: 
Speaking to BBC, she said she strongly believed there were members of the public who were carrying vital information.  
"Maybe their situation or loyalties have changed. Now is their time to speak as it's not too late. Dr Abdul Shakoor deserves to know what happened," she said.
Anyone with any information about the fire were asked to contact police or the independent charity Crimestoppers, which offered "up to" £20,000 for information leading to a conviction.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
