A £700,000 lab allowing businesses to develop 5G technology is opening in a city shopping centre.The 5G Immersive Lab will be based inside Newcastle's Eldon Square and aims to showcase how firms can better use the technology.5G networks allow wireless technology to operate more devices, with faster internet speeds.Alex Cook, from Digital Catapult, which is running the lab, said the site would aim to show how technology could solve real problems faced by businesses.
There will also be virtual reality and augmented reality hardware at the lab to showcase how 5G can be used.Businesses will be able to take part in hands-on workshops to learn about how 5G works and how it can benefit their companies.
Digital Catapult is an industry body focusing on accelerating the use of advanced technologies.The lab will run sessions specialising in how 5G can help specific sectors such as manufacturing and the creative industries.
It will be located at the former Giraffe restaurant unit in Eldon Square and house a co-working space, meeting rooms and event spaces.The North of Tyne Combined Authority has provided £700,000 of funding for the Immersive Lab.
Mayor Jamie Driscoll said: "We don't yet know the full capabilities of 5G and it will mean different things for different industries. "That's why this lab is really exciting, as it will provide the right environment and tools for businesses to test it out in a low-cost, low-risk way."
5G is already being used by businesses across north-east England. The Port of Tyne is using the technology to better track the many shipments passing through its port.Agricultural firms are also using 5G to connect multiple crop monitoring devices to one network.Sunderland City Council has installed a public 5G network and is exploring how to use it for creative events.The first event at the Immersive lab will take place on 8 May.
Follow BBC Newcastle on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk.
