A flying instructor has been commended for his "calm and professional" response after a plane made an emergency landing in a field during a training flight.The aircraft took off from London Oxford Airport, near Kidlington, on Monday afternoon, but landed in a nearby field at 13:00 BST following an engine malfunction.Pilot Flight Training Ltd said the instructor ensured the "safety of the student pilot and the public was prioritised at all times".There were no injuries, and no damage to the plane. Investigations are under way.
Emergency services gathered near the landing site next to the A44 Woodstock East, close to the Begbroke slip road.Oxfordshire Fire and Rescue Service sent engines from Kidlington, Eynsham and Rewley Road fire stations, supported by the airport fire and rescue service, but said they were not required as the occupants were out of the aircraft when they arrived.Tom Saunders, director of Pilot Flight Training Ltd, described it as a "precautionary landing" following "some abnormal engine indications".He added: "Airport and local emergency services were quickly on the scene and confirmed the safe evacuation of the occupants."Our thanks go to London Oxford Airport air traffic control, the police and local emergency services for their quick actions and professional support... an investigation is under way into the cause of the incident."
Will Curtis, managing director at the airport, said: "A light single engine training aircraft made an emergency landing in an agricultural field after experiencing an engine malfunction shortly after departure from Oxford Airport. "There were no injuries to anyone resulting, both occupants safely evacuated the aircraft and there was no damage to the aircraft involved. "The aircraft is being recovered to the airport by road where it will be carefully inspected by technicians before further flight."A spokesperson for the Air Accidents Investigation Branch said they were "aware of a serious incident involving a light aircraft at Oxford Airport which occurred on Monday". They said they had "made initial inquires and will be conducting an investigation".
Follow BBC South on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk. 
