Hundreds of fell runners have formed a guard of honour at the funeral of a record-breaking veteran athlete.Joss Naylor, who was born in Cumbria and known as the King of the Fells, died last month aged 88.In tribute, the runners arrived wearing club colours at the Lake District village of Wasdale Head after racing up to 8 miles (14km) through the valley.They walked in front of the cortege to "lead Joss home", with the service being held at St Olaf's Church.
The sheep farmer broke the Lake District 24-hour record three times and ran the fastest-known times on the Three Peaks, Welsh 3,000ers and Pennine Way.He was appointed MBE for services to sport and charity in 1976.
Lake District documentary-maker and photographer Terry Abraham said Mr Naylor would be "remembered like Wordsworth, Ruskin and Wainwright within the history of the most beautiful corner of England".He described his friend as "a humble, down-to-earth person born of the land that shaped him".He added: "I'll miss his sharp tongue, stories, honesty and humility. He had a huge heart and cared passionately about Cumbria and its people."
Headed by a local teenage cornet player, those in the funeral procession sang Swing Low, Sweet Chariot - amended slightly to include references to Wasdale.The service got under way at 13:00 BST, with a loudspeaker relaying proceedings to well-wishers outside England's smallest parish church.The Fell Runners Association said it had been "Joss's wish that his funeral should be a colourful celebration of his life".Posting on social media, the group said Mr Naylor's family had requested "all attendees walk in front of the cortege to lead Joss home, with those carrying club flags in the front".
Runner Daryl Tacon told the BBC: "If anybody embodies what fell running is about it's Joss Naylor."Another of those taking part, Lesley Malarkey, said: "Joss taught us all about how to be free in the fells."You don't need clutter or fuss. You've just got to get out there and run."
In 1986, Mr Naylor ran all 214 Wainwrights in seven days.At the age of 60, he ran 60 Lakeland fell-tops in 36 hours and then, at 70, ran 70 Lakeland fells.A patron of the Brathay Trust, he used his long-distance races to raise about £40,000 for the youth charity between 2007 and 2019.
Follow BBC Cumbria on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk.
