SYDNEY (AP) — Shane Watson will be among four Australia internationals making an emotional return to the Sydney Cricket Ground pitch for the first time since Phillip Hughes died from injuries sustained in a match there in November.
Watson, who was fielding for New South Wales against Hughes’ South Australia with national teammates Brad Haddin, Nathan Lyon and David Warner, are expected to be in the lineup for Australia when the fourth test against India begins on Tuesday at the SCG.
Hughes died on Nov. 27, two days after being hit in the head by a short-pitched delivery in the SCG match.
“It was always a time that I wasn’t really looking forward to, coming back to the ground,” Watson said. “But in the end, enough time has sort of passed to be able to find my own personal way to be able to deal with what happened to Phil.”
He said the Australian team had not discussed the subject of playing again at the SCG as a group, but they realized Hughes will be on their minds.
“We’ve only really come together just now, so I’m sure we will (address the issue) over the next couple of days, especially the guys who were on the field at that moment,” Watson said. “I still haven’t been out in the middle yet so I’m sure once I go out there all those memories will come flooding back very quickly.”
He said the Melbourne test last week was the first time he started to be comfortable with receiving bouncers, or short-pitched balls.

        
    
“I really started to feel the confidence sort of grew back in myself and my game, to know that my instincts are going to be hopefully good enough to play the short ball well and not get myself in too much trouble,” Watson said.
Hughes’ parents, Greg and Virginia, his sister Megan and brother Jason are planning to attend the SCG match, traveling down from Macksville on the New South Wales north coast where Hughes’ funeral was held.
Australia has clinched the series after winning the first two matches in Adelaide and Brisbane ahead of the drawn Melbourne test.
