DUBLIN (AP) — With his stock high after masterminding a series win in New Zealand, Andy Farrell signed a contract extension as Ireland rugby coach on Friday that ties him to the position until 2025.
Farrell might have been a potential replacement for England coach Eddie Jones, who will leave his post after the 2023 Rugby World Cup.
But the 47-year-old Farrell is now contracted to Ireland beyond then, with the new deal announced two weeks after Ireland clinched its first-ever series win over the All Blacks in New Zealand to move atop the world rankings.
Irish rugby’s performance director, David Nucifora, said the contract extension was agreed to prior to the tour of New Zealand.
“Andy is one of the outstanding coaches in world rugby and his work in leading the transition within the national team since the 2019 Rugby World Cup has been exceptional,” Nucifora said.
“Ireland are currently the No. 1-ranked team in the world, an incredibly tough five-match tour of New Zealand was a success on several levels and a Triple Crown was secured in the 2022 Six Nations Championship. A coach of Andy’s caliber is always going to be in high demand, and we are delighted that he has agreed to extend his contract with the IRFU.”
Farrell left his role as England assistant coach after the 2015 World Cup, when the country — as host nation — failed to get out of the pool stage.

        
    
Farrell, who played for England at both rugby league and then rugby union, became Ireland defense coach in 2016 under Joe Schmidt and succeeded the New Zealander as head coach after the 2019 World Cup.
“As a group we have made it clear that we are building towards the 2023 Rugby World Cup,” Farrell said, “and we have taken some decent strides in that regard in recent months.”
IRFU chief executive Kevin Potts said there is an option to extend Farrell’s contract further “based on a number of mutually agreed performance markers.”
Farrell’s son, Owen, has been captain of England’s rugby team in recent years.
More AP rugby: https://apnews.com/hub/rugby and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
