Americans are getting older, living longer, but are getting sicker. These demographic factors are far and away the key drivers of skyrocketing health-care costs.
A 2014 U.S. Census Bureau study projected that over the next 35 years, the U.S. population ages 65 and older would double, ages 80 and older will triple and ages 90 and older will quadruple. These numbers have grave implications for health spending because seniors account for a disproportionate share of medical expenditures. A significant portion of a person’s lifetime health care spending occurs in the second half, especially the last couple of years before death. Up through middle age, the need for medical care and the associated costs tends to rise gradually. After age 50 however, it starts to increase sharply and continues to do so into very advanced age until death. Some studies have shown that the age 85+ cohort consumes roughly twice the amount of health care as does the 75-84 age group and three times as much as those 65-74.
Recent reports from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the National Institute of Health, provide some shocking statistics.
First, 2 out of 3 adults are either overweight or obese. These conditions, which are on the rise, are linked to chronic illness including heart disease and type 2 diabetes.
Second, 117 million people or about half of all adults have one or more chronic health issues.

        
    
Third, chronic diseases are responsible for a whopping 75 percent, or over $2 trillion of total health spending in the U.S.!
In other words, a huge portion of our nation’s resources is spent on treatments for conditions that can be reduced dramatically or eliminated entirely by simply taking better care of ourselves. While doctors are taking an active role in counseling patients in this area, policy makers and politicians seem to avoid this topic believing they are personal matters best left up to the individual. Unfortunately, every citizen will subsidize the costs of these lifestyle choices.
Designing effective strategies to rein in health care costs won’t be painless, but it is doable. Fortunately, there are some important areas of agreement among policy experts and medical professionals. As a country, we need to shift our focus from who should pay to how can we pay less. We can start by attacking two huge cost drivers.
First, we can redesign our health-care reimbursement system to include incentives and pricing tools that induce patients to be smart shoppers and providers to offer the highest quality care at the lowest possible price.
Second, we should focus on the areas where we can have the greatest impact. Since we know that obesity-related chronic conditions make up the overwhelming portion of health-care spending and are mostly preventable, it seems like a sensible place to start. A structural shift toward wellness could also have a positive secondary effect on health-care costs. By reducing demand for medical services, providers and insurers might be incented to compete more aggressively for our business by lowering prices.
These two approaches won’t solve all the problems in our health-care system. However, they would constitute a first step toward curbing costs and improving health.
It’s what our country needs and deserves.
John Spoto is the founder of Sentry Financial Planning in Andover and Danvers. Sentry is a fee-only financial planning firm that does not work for any financial institution, sell financial or insurance products of any kind, or accept commissions or referral fees. For more information, call 978-475-2533 or visit www.sentryfinancialplanning.com .
