STUTTGART, Germany (AP) — Denmark plays Slovenia on Sunday in their first 
Group C
 match at the European Championship. The other teams in the group are England and Serbia. Kickoff is at 6 p.m. local (1600 GMT) at Stuttgart Arena. Here’s what to know about the match:
— Denmark, the European champion in 1992 after coming into that tournament as a late replacement for war-torn Yugoslavia, is looking to back up its run to the semifinals at Euro 2020.
— Denmark midfielder Christian Eriksen is set to make his 131st international appearance in what would be his first match in a European Championship since his 
cardiac arrest
 in the country’s opener against Finland at Euro 2020.
— Slovenia is competing in only its second European Championship. In 2000, the team drew two of its three games and didn’t make it out of the group stage.
— The teams were in the same qualifying group. They drew 1-1 in Slovenia, while Denmark won 2-1 at home.
— Denmark has no major injury problems, with the biggest dilemma for coach Kasper Hjulmand being who to play alongside, or just behind, striker Rasmus Hojlund.
— Miha Blažič and Benjamin Verbič are back in training for Slovenia after injury issues, while midfielder Petar Stojanović is ready to return after missing warmup matches against Armenia and Bulgaria.
— Denmark has only missed two of the last 11 European Championship tournaments — in 2008 and ’16.

        
    
— Slovenia is on a six-match unbeaten run after drawing 1-1 with Bulgaria in its final warmup for Euro 2024.
— Benjamin Šeško, Slovenia’s star striker, was the team’s top scorer in qualifying with five goals. He has just 
signed a new deal at Leipzig
 after being linked with a move away to top teams including Manchester United.
— “We’re already very pleased with him but there’s more to come.” — Denmark coach Kasper Hjulmand on Rasmus Hojlund, the 21-year-old striker who has just finished a tough first year at Manchester United.
— “I am convinced Slovenia will not just be a ‘tourist’ team in the championship.” — Slovenia coach Matjaž Kek.
AP Euro 2024: 
https://apnews.com/hub/euro-2024
