As composer Laura Kaminsky tells it, the idea came suddenly and unexpectedly. She called it an aha moment.
I read an article in the New York Times about a married couple with two adolescent children, she started. The husband was in the process of transitioning, and the couple was going to remain together.
But if the marriage equality vote in New Jersey did not pass they would no longer be married legally. They would lose all the rights and protections that marriage afforded them.
This was 2008, seven years before the U.S. Supreme Court made same-sex marriage a nationwide right. After reading the couples story, Kaminsky turned to her wife, painter Rebecca Allan, and said: This is an opera. I need to tell the story of a transgender person.
New York-based Kaminsky premiered As One in September 2014 at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, a venue known for presenting progressive new works. The opera immediately struck a chord.
It tells the story of Hannah, a person transitioning from male to female. And it uses two singers a baritone and mezzo-soprano to capture before and after versions of the central character. Its an approach, Kaminsky said, that teases out the psychological nuances of Hannahs transgender journey.
While there are two singers who play Hannah Before and Hannah After, Kaminsky said via e-mail last week, Hannah is always one person, and so they are always in character, as one.

        
    
The internal dialogue that we all have going on in our head is represented by the two Hannahs and their two voice types.
With this unusual approach, As One broke ground as the opera worlds first depiction of a transgender person. There have been more than a dozen new productions of As One, making it one of Americas top contemporary operas. Skylark Opera Theatre presides over this weeks Minnesota premiere, opening this weekend in St. Paul.
Universal themes
For Skylark artistic director Bob Neu, As One seemed the perfect fit for his lean company, which specializes in presenting opera in intimate Twin Cities settings.
During an interview last week, he rattled off the works many practical virtues for a small operation like his: A string quartet accompaniment, two singers, no specific sets that you need. And its got contemporary and social relevance. Youd have to be a little bit of a fool to not pay attention if youre in the opera business.
In addition to practical considerations, Neu finds himself attracted to the operas narrative themes.
Theres some sly humor in it, he said. Its not sentimental. Its my kind of storytelling, more of a character study with lots of subtext.
It really is a story about anyone finding ones true self, he continued. Hannahs true self is to be transgender. But I think any of us who hasnt been sure about who we are deep down and how comfortable we are presenting that thats what As One is about.
The opera owes much of its story line to transgender filmmaker Kimberly Reed.
Reeds 2008 documentary Prodigal Sons charted her own gender-transition experience. The film was a major inspiration for Kaminsky and directly informed the As One libretto, which Reed co-wrote with Mark Campbell. (Campbell is best known for the libretto for Kevin Puts Pulitzer Prize-winningSilent Night, premiered by Minnesota Opera in 2011.)
Reed also created video projections for the original As One production, taking the place of a traditional set. According to Neu, the projections play a crucial role in framing interactions between Hannah Before and Hannah After.
They appear almost throughout, Neu said. They do everything from suggesting a mood to literally suggesting a place.
For example, one scene finds a school-age Hannah Before fielding criticism about her writing style, which is accused of being too flowery and too big, Neu said. That scene is accompanied by projections of her too feminine handwriting.
Gray matters
While Kaminskys score for string quartet is very accessible musically, according to Neu, the composer also made some unorthodox choices.
One unusual decision was to have the string quartet not only play, but also sing at times, Kaminsky said. She also gave a speaking part to the conductor. So they are all actively engaged in Hannahs universe, Kaminsky said.
She also wrote a special part for one of the instruments in the quartet. The viola represents Hannah, Kaminsky explained, and the viola has a theme that recurs throughout the piece its bluesy, soulful, ruminative.
Neu knows Kaminskys opera will raise provocative questions with its Minnesota premiere. Thats why Skylark will host post-concert conversations after all six performances, featuring a rotating cast of speakers including transgender author, activist and attorney Ellen Krug and One Voice Mixed Chorus assistant conductor Erik Peregrine.
andthinsp;As One is about societys reactions to something thats not black or white, Neu said. Hannah knows shes living in a gray area, the way we all do, he continued. This opera is about accepting the differences we all have the gray areas we all have.
Terry Blain is a freelance classical music critic for the Star Tribune. Reach him at 
[email protected]
.
