BROWNSVILLE — Fernando Luna Rodriguez, Aaron Rodriguez Medellin and Nestor Manuel Leal were sentenced Friday in the final chapter of the capital murder case in which the men had been charged with the murder and beheading of Jose Francisco Palacios Paz.
The three men, along with Fernando’s two brothers, Eduardo Luna Rodriguez and former Border Patrol agent Joel Luna, were charged in the capital murder and decapitation of Palacios Paz, whose naked headless corpse was found in March of 2015 in the waters off South Padre Island.
Appearing before 107th state District Judge Benjamin Euresti Jr., Medellin and Leal each accepted sentencing recommendations by Assistant District Attorney Gus Garza of 15 years for murder. The charges of capital murder and two counts of engaging in organized criminal activity were dismissed.
Medellin initially declined an offer of 20 years and appeared to be headed for trial. But shortly after conferring with their attorneys and Garza, Medellin and Leal accepted the state’s offer of 15 years. Both will be given credit for jail time already served.
Palacios Paz was killed after his wife, Martha Sanchez, informed Fernando via text message that her husband planned on informing authorities about the Luna brothers’ drug and weapon smuggling between the United States and Mexico.
During a search of the home of Joel’s mother-in-law, authorities seized a safe purchased by Joel. That safe contained nearly $90,000 dollars in cash, more than a kilo of cocaine, a ledger of drug and weapon sales, and a golden gun inscribed with the words “Pajaro” and “Cartel de Gulfo.” Pajaro was the nickname of Eduardo, the youngest of the three Luna brothers.

        
    
On Tuesday, Eduardo was found guilty of capital murder, murder and two counts of engaging in criminal activity. He was sentenced to life in prison without parole for murder and 50 years for one count of engaging in criminal activity.
Joel was found guilty of engaging in criminal activity and received a sentence of 20 years without the possibility of appeal.
Fernando, originally charged along with his two brothers, testified against Joel and Eduardo in exchange for a plea deal from the state. On Friday, he received 10 years’ probation and will be deported to Mexico.
It was an emotionally charged scene in the courtroom as Medellin and Leal were sentenced. Medellin’s wife sat crying as her husband’s punishment was announced. Leal’s mother and young son also were present, with Leal’s mother sobbing and hugging her wailing grandson in the hallway after the judge made his ruling.
For the rest of this story and many other EXTRAS, go to our premium site, www.MyValleyStar.com.
Subscribe to it for only $6.99 per month or purchase a print subscription and receive the online version free, which includes an electronic version of the full newspaper and extra photo galleries, links and other information you can’t find anywhere else.
