People are being warned to stay away from a beach after the collapse of a cliff-top road brought power lines down.
High tides and wind caused "significant damage" at Hemsby in Norfolk with several feet of cliff and dunes washed away on Friday.
Hemsby Lifeboat posted on Facebook to say a 200-metre stretch of road had fallen on to the beach.
Daniel Hurd, lifeboat coxswain said: "Stay away - it's just too dangerous."
Further down the coast in Suffolk, a road has collapsed on to the beach at the Pakefield Holiday Park in Lowestoft, leading to similar warnings to people to stay away from the beach, which the coastguard has described as "a dangerous place to be".
In Hemsby, Mr Hurd said erosion due to the spring tide had led to fallen power lines, cars had been left stranded on The Marrams, which runs parallel to the cliff, and one disabled resident was unable to move from his home.
"People are unable to get to their properties; there's no water supply; it's an absolute joke," he said.
The lifeboat crew, which is independent and not part of the RNLI, was helping residents while Norfolk Police who had closed off some roads.
Its lifeboat station is set slightly back from The Gap - an area of dunes at a lower point between higher sandy cliffs.
More on Norfolk erosion:
Hemsby Lifeboat added on its social media post: "The road along The Marrams to the south has also fallen into the sea, restricting access and creating very dangerous conditions. 
"This has left the Gap area and dunes in a very unstable condition, and we are asking anyone visiting the beach this weekend to be extra vigilant. 
"If you are in the area of the Gap, please stay away from the edge and the base of the dunes, as there is a high risk of further collapse."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
Have you been affected by issues covered in this story? You can share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways:
If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission. 
