A killer who stabbed a woman 60 times during sex will give evidence at his parole hearing in private, even though an application had been granted for it to be held in public.Farm worker Steven Ling was jailed for life in December 1998, after he admitted murdering 29 year-old Joanne Tulip in Stamfordham, Northumberland, on Christmas Day a year earlier. The panel chair told members of the public, who were able to watch the proceedings on a live stream from Ling's jail, that he had chosen not to appear on camera.  The media made a request to challenge the decision, but were told they could not address the panel.
In April 2023, Caroline Corby, the chairwoman of the Parole Board for England and Wales, granted an application for Ling's fifth parole hearing to be held in public. It followed legal reforms that came into force in 2022 which allowed public hearings in a bid to remove the secrecy around the process. 
But on the first day of proceedings, the panel chair said Ling's evidence would be heard in private "to ensure the panel could make a fair and informed decision based on the risk he presents to the public". A Parole Board spokesperson said in a statement: "The Parole Board understands that the public hearing attendees, especially the victims, were disappointed by these developments. "We are very sorry that the victims were unable to observe all of the proceedings and understand the impact that this has had on them and their understanding of the process."
Speaking in 2022, Ms Tulip's mother, Doreen Soulsby, said she believed her daughter's killer was still "a very dangerous man"."We are all terrified and devastated for our own family that they can even think of even releasing a prisoner like him, he should be kept in for life - life should mean life," she said. Ling was initially ordered to serve at least 20 years behind bars, but in 2009 a High Court judge cut the minimum term to 18 years.During sentencing at Newcastle Crown Court, Mr Justice Potts told Ling: "You inflicted appalling injuries on [Ms Tulip] while you were having sexual relations with her." He added: "You will never be released so long as it is thought you constitute a danger to women."
Follow BBC North East on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk.
