Some of England's most best-known Victorian football grounds have now gone - and with them some famous stands.The likes of Derby County, Stoke City and Sunderland left their 19th Century homes and moved to new modern stadiums before the 20th Century ended.Sunderland fans no longer gather in the Clock Stand at Roker Park, Stoke fans have left the Boothen End at the Victoria Ground and the Baseball Ground's Osmaston End is not filled with Derby fans any more.But, in one Norfolk seaside town, fans will gather in the stand where their Victorian forebears sat, when the 2024-25 season starts on Saturday.Great Yarmouth Town Football Club's stand is thought to be the oldest of its kind in the world.
The Wellesley Recreation Ground, which is owned by Great Yarmouth Borough Council, opened under a different name in 1888. Club chairman Martyn Sinclair explained how the ground's wooden grandstand, which is Grade II listed, opened in 1892."It's got a blue plaque dated 11 June, 1892, " said Mr Sinclair, 51, a businessman and former Yarmouth player and manager."It's thought to be the oldest surviving wooden football stand still in use in the world."He added: "We're active on social media - we've got about 9,000 followers on Twitter, now called X, and about 4,000 on Facebook. "I think someone would have told us if there's an older stand - no-one has."If someone does know of one anywhere in the world, we'd love to hear from them."
The stand is basic but has what fans and players, of either the Victorian era or the modern day, need."It's got wooden benches," explained Mr Sinclair. "We would say it can safely hold 500 people. There's a small tunnel, home and away dressing rooms, and a referee's room."He said the stand underwent regular maintenance and safety checks - and marshals were on duty at games.It was re-painted a year ago.
The stand was there when the first modern Olympics were staged in Athens in 1896.West Bromwich Albion won the FA Cup in by beating Aston Villa 3 -0 in the year the stand was opened.Prime ministers from William Gladstone to Rishi Sunak have come and gone since 1892.Norwich City Football Club was not formed until 1902 - Ipswich Town was formed in 1878. Local historian David Tubby, who has written books about Yarmouth's sporting heritage, said Great Yarmouth Town were formed in 1897 but did not play at the Wellesley until 1901.He also said the ground went under a different name in its early years.
Yarmouth now play in the Thurlow Nunn League, the ninth tier of English football, and are preparing to entertain Long Melford in their first league game of the 2024-25 season.But fans in the old stand have seen some big games.In 1953, Yarmouth beat Crystal Palace, then in the Third Division (South), in the first round of the FA Cup at the Wellesley.Thirty years later they were beaten by VS Rugby in the semi-final of the FA Vase.
Follow Norfolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X.
