IndyCar driver Robert Wickens will have surgery for a spinal injury suffered in a crash at Pocono Raceway.
IndyCar said in a statement the 29-year-old Canadian was scheduled for surgery Monday night in an Allentown, Pa., hospital. The series was not expected to issue another immediate update on his condition.
Wickens was airlifted from the race track following a crash in the opening laps of Sunday’s race. IndyCar said he suffered injuries to his lower extremities, right arm and spine, and a pulmonary contusion.
Wickens’ car sailed into the fence at Pocono when he and Ryan Hunter-Reay made slight contact. Hunter-Reay’s car spun and Wickens’ car launched over it and into the fence. A large hole was torn into the fence and the race was delayed two hours to repair the damage.
White Sox manager hospitalized
Chicago White Sox manager Rick Renteria has been taken to a hospital after complaining of lightheadedness.
The 56-year-old Renteria was at the ballpark when the issue arose and was taken to Hennepin County Medical Center in Minneapolis as a precaution. A team official says tests didn’t show any problems.
Bench coach Joe McEwing served as manager for Monday night’s one-game makeup in Minnesota before the teams travel to Chicago for a two-game series.
All-Star closer Kenley Jansen has been activated off the disabled list for the Los Angeles Dodgers earlier than expected after being cleared by a cardiologist. ... Doc Edwards, a major league catcher who went on to manage the Cleveland Indians for three seasons in the 1980s, has died. He was 81. He managed the Indians for the 1987-89 seasons, finishing with a record of 173-207.

        
    
Peterson joins Redskins
The Washington Redskins have signed four-time All-Pro running back Adrian Peterson.
Peterson, 33, joins his fourth team as he enters what would be his 12th NFL season. The 2012 MVP is 12th all-time in rushing with 12,276 yards and needs 37 to pass Jim Brown.
Ohio State trustees set a private meeting for Wednesday to talk about the future of coach Urban Meyer as the university seeks to quickly move past a scandal that has consumed the football program for nearly a month. Meyer has been the subject of an investigation into the handling of domestic-abuse allegations against former assistant coach Zach Smith. ... Top-ranked Simona Halep has withdrawn from the Connecticut Open, citing a sore right Achilles tendon. The Romanian was scheduled to play Tuesday in New Haven, but says in a statement her Achilles is sore from “two weeks of many matches and I need to recover in time for the U.S. Open.” ... Wisconsin wide receiver Quintez Cephus was charged with felony sexual assault on Monday, accused of misconduct involving two women at his apartment last April.
Cephus, a 20-year-old junior from Macon, Ga., was suspended by the team shortly after he was charged with third-degree sexual assault and second-degree sex assault of an intoxicated victim. The charges were filed by the Dane County district attorney and Madison police said Cephus is accused of assaulting the two women on April 22.
