A Devon waterfront area has been recognised for its contribution to Britain's maritime history.
Bideford and the River Torridge now have Heritage Harbour status, the Maritime Heritage Trust said.
It follows campaigning by ten local charities, led by Bideford-based Way of the Wharves.
The charity said the new status would bolster "preservation and development" of the waterfront "from Appledore to Torrington".
This would help "bring to life stories of the maritime history of the whole Torridge Estuary", it added.
One such story is that of Bideford's SS Freshspring, a steamship built in 1946 which is being restored by a team of volunteers - the last example of 14 such Royal Fleet Auxiliary water carriers.
In the 16th century, Bideford was Britain's third largest port and has since been a channel for industries including timber, emigration, pottery, coal, gravel, fisheries, agriculture, energy, tourism and enterprise, Bideford and River Torridge Heritage Harbour (BARTHH) said.
The harbour remains a "thriving shipyard", it added.
Mike Teare, chairman of the charity Way of the Wharves, said: "This decision is of huge significance for our area, not only for highlighting our magnificent maritime heritage, but for developing Bideford and Torridge as an attractive place to live, work, and visit."
Torridge District Council said Bideford, Northam and Appledore were "built on the maritime economy" and to be listed alongside Exeter, Bristol, and Ipswich as a heritage port was a "fitting achievement".
The group behind the campaign is made up of a number of different charities, organisations and councils which have created a website to record their work. 
The Maritime Heritage Trust said this status "emphasises the great value in sensitively developing historic buildings, wasteland, mooring and maintenance facilities for both local and visiting historic vessels".
The status does not bring with it additional funding, Way of the Wharves said. 
Follow BBC News South West on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk.
