The boss of the Esports World Cup has defended the decision to hold the event in Saudi Arabia.Hundreds of competitors have gathered in Riyadh to compete in the eight-week tournament for a share of a $60m (£47.1m)-prize pot funded by the Arab country.But the massive contest has divided players, streamers and fans due to it being held in Saudi Arabia, particularly over its stance on LGBT rights.Critics say the World Cup is an example of "sportswashing", and the wealthy country is investing heavily in big events to distract from its human rights record.Esports World Cup Foundation CEO Ralf Reichert spoke to BBC Newsbeat, saying he wants to reassure LGBT fans and players travelling to the event over concerns about their safety in Saudia Arabia."Everyone is welcome," he said, echoing previous statements by the country's sports minister."Everyone can participate in the competition and no-one will be discriminated against. That's a promise we can give."But he added: "In every country in the world, there are different local habits and cultural norms, which you need to adhere to. "So what we're telling everyone is, don't be explicit. "Act locally to respect the local culture. And I think that's fair. It's something that happens all over the world."
Some players have refused to take part in the World Cup and other big names in the esports community have opposed the event. But thousands of fans are still expected to attend in person and many more are due to watch the contests streamed live on YouTube and Twitch.Ralf, who has 27 years of experience in competitive gaming, says he believes the event will be good for esports.There's been a downturn in the industry since a boom during the pandemic, with teams and tournaments shutting down due to a lack of funds.He told Newsbeat he hopes having so many games in one place will bring more fans together."We can bring fans from all over the world to unite on one thing and cross-pollinate across all these games", he said."Bringing it mainstream, global recognition is probably the unique opportunity we have."
Team Liquid, one of the world's biggest esports teams, is participating in the competition.On the first day of the tournament players from the team competed in their official rainbow Pride kit to show support for the LGBT community. Team Liquid CEO Steve Arhancet told BBC Newsbeat that weighing up whether to take part had been "quite the quandary and challenge for us". "Team Liquid is rooted in values of inclusivity," he said. "So how do we continue operating with our values in a region of the world that conflicts so strongly, and with pretty egregious human rights violations?"Steve said the team eventually decided it was important to turn up and use the contest as a platform to show their support for LGBT people. As a gay man himself, Steve said it's personally important to him and plenty of other gamers.One in five gamers identifies as LGBT, according to a recent survey produced by LGBT advocacy group GLAAD and polling company Nielsen."Maybe there's some gay or queer gamers that are going to be watching that will see Team Liquid wearing the Pride colours where that representation has never been seen before," Steve said.
It's a view shared by one of the UK's top esports players, Emma, also known as Emzi online. She won gold for Northern Ireland in eFootball at the Commonwealth esports Championships in 2022. In her view, it's a shame so many players have chosen to boycott the competition. "I feel like those are the voices we need there," Emzi said. "The esports World Cup is going to go ahead whether we like it or not."As a trans woman, Emma says she thinks it's particularly important for players like her to attend and be seen, even if she's just spectating this time."I am the loudest person who shouts about trans rights and LGBT rights" she says. Emma says the location shouldn't get in the way of the opportunities she thinks will come from the massive new event.
Despite the positivity from some there are still many who remain sceptical. Emi, also known as CaptainFluke online, is one of the well-known esports hosts who's publicly stated her opposition to holding the World Cup in Saudi Arabia. She believes Ralf's promise that all are welcome is sincere, but doesn't believe he can guarantee anyone's safety."They can't make that statement against the sort of power level above them," says Emi."The risk isn't unfortunately something I think they can control."Emi, a trans woman, says friends have asked her advice on whether to take part in the event or not, and stresses that she understands why lots have chosen to attend.But in her view holding the event in Saudi Arabia has made LGBT people feel "isolated"."You feel removed from something that all you have for is passion and love," she said."That isolation is horrible. "To feel this is a celebration of all esports, but you're not welcome. "It's tough."
Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 weekdays - or listen back here.
