The train track between Belfast and Lisburn has been closed for the summer, affecting commuters and cross-border passengers, to facilitate engineering work for the new Grand Central Station. No trains will run between Lisburn and Belfast Lanyon Place until autumn.The cross-border Enterprise service for Dublin will operate from Portadown, with a rail replacement bus running between Newry and Belfast.Some smaller stations on the line are also affected. Translink’s bus services manager David Curry said summer passenger numbers are usually lower than during the rest of the year, and running the works at this time would “minimise the overall impact”, but he urged passengers to check the journey planner on the Translink website.“I want to thank all our passengers and local neighbours for their support and patience as we progress these essential works,” he continued.
NI Railways tickets will work on Metro and Glider services between York Street, Lanyon Station, City Centre, Botanic and City Hospital.The Londonderry, Bangor and Larne line services will keep operating to and from Lanyon Place.Several weekend services between Dublin and Belfast have been cancelled altogether.A full list of replacement services can be found on the Translink website.Passengers should check the journey planner on Translink's website and leave extra time for their journeys.
Passengers, like Alma White who were due to be on the train from Lisburn, have begun arriving in Belfast. She said she was not sure about the bus service at first but has been left pleasantly surprised."It was actually really easy," she told BBC News NI.The rail replacement services are running every 10 minutes.
No trains will be running between Lisburn train station and Lanyon Place in Belfast.Instead, an express bus service will run between Lisburn and the Europa bus station in Belfast. The closed stations are:Passengers boarding between Lisburn and Belfast will need to use bus services by Ulsterbus and Metro instead. A separate shuttle bus will run between Lanyon Place and the Europa, serving stations including City Hospital and Botanic.Most of the Enterprise train service north of the border will be affected.Enterprise train services will run from Portadown to Dublin, stopping at Newry, Dundalk, Drogheda and Dublin Connolly.Train passengers who usually board at Scarva and Poyntzpass can use bus substitutions to Newry and Belfast.
In Lisburn, go to Bachelor's Walk bus stop.In Newry, it's the bus stop outside the station in the station carpark.In Portadown, go to the Northway layby outside the station.And in Scarva and Poyntzspass, the bus stops are next to the train halts.Translink say staff and information will be on hand at the stations to help passengers.
Translink have said the line will be operational again in early autumn when the new Grand Central Station opens in Belfast, but they have not given an exact date.Great Victoria Street Station was permanently closed on 10 May and the new Grand Central station has been 
Derek and Anne Smyth said the bus connection was "not as convenient" but that it worked fine."We knew it would be a bit bumpy as it's the first day," they said.However, the couple added passengers who may need to make onward journeys elsewhere may find the journey takes a little longer.
At the Europa Bus Centre, extra Translink staff are in place to help passengers with their journeys.There are also leaflets with information on the changes.Rita, Olivia and Daniel are trying to get to Lisburn for their swimming class but have been disrupted by the change in service.“We came here to get a train, but now we have been told we have to wait here for a bus to then get another bus," Rita said.
Brendan and Margaret Jamison were also supposed to get the train from Lisburn, but has described the rail replacement service as "very impressive and fast"."If you get the train you stop at every stop, but we were here in 20 minutes today," they said.
