A fire at a former army barracks housing hundreds of asylum seekers was started deliberately, police have said.
Emergency services were sent to Napier Barracks in Folkestone at 14:00 GMT after "reports of a disturbance".
The Home Office said people had "set about destroying the barracks" because they objected to not being moved from the site after a Covid outbreak.
Home Secretary Priti Patel called the "destruction... deeply offensive to the taxpayers of this country".
Kent Police said the blaze had caused "a significant amount of damage" and officers were investigating it as a suspected arson attack.
The ex-military site has been used to house about 400 asylum seekers since September.
According to the Home Office, a number of asylum seekers had been moved from the site earlier in week following a Covid outbreak so that those remaining could self-isolate and a deep clean could take place.
Some of those who stayed "became aggressive, turned violent and began to set about destroying the barracks" after they objected that they had not been moved as well.
The government department claimed that windows had been smashed at the barracks and one building had been set on fire.
The fire has been brought under control and Kent Fire and Rescue Service said crews were damping down remaining hot spots.
Kent Police said it was not treating the incident as a riot.
"We are carrying out inquiries and working with partners... to establish the circumstances surrounding this serious incident and the identities of those who may have been involved," Det Ch Supt Andrew Pritchard said.
The force added that no arrests have been made and no serious injuries reported.
Charity Care4Calais said the blaze began after an "upsetting afternoon" in which residents were told they would not be moved despite a Covid-19 outbreak.
Instead, a letter from Clearsprings, the private firm that runs the site, told asylum seekers they would have to self-isolate for a further ten days, the charity said.
Clearsprings has been approached for comment.
Care4Calais founder Clare Moseley said: "Everyone was really upset and a small number of people caused a bit of a ruckus in the dining room and they knocked over tables and then a fire was started."
She said she had received phone calls from residents who were "really frightened" that the actions of others would affect their asylum claims. 
Ms Moseley said "the fact there has been this ridiculous Covid outbreak, proves that [the barracks] weren't suitable".
When asked about staying at the barracks, one resident told the PA news agency: "I have suffered here more than I have ever suffered on earth."
He added that the "only dream" for many who were there was to "get out of Napier".
Ms Patel has previously defended the use of barracks amid calls to close them. 
Coventry South MP Zarah Sultana said on Tuesday that "one in four people" at Napier Barracks had tested positive for Covid-19 as she called on Ms Patel to close the camp and "provide good, safe and liveable housing instead".
But Ms Patel told Parliament the accommodation was of a "very strong standard" and "in line with PHE guidance".
On Friday, Ms Patel said that she would support police in taking "robust action against those vandalising property".
"This site has previously accommodated our brave soldiers and army personnel - it is an insult to say that it is not good enough for these individuals," she added.
Folkestone Conservative MP Damian Collins tweeted "there can be no excuse for what has happened", adding there will be a review of security alongside a police inquiry.
