More than 100 women are currently on a waiting list for menopause courses in a county a year after they started.
Suffolk Libraries and Suffolk Mind run courses and sessions and provide support for anyone experiencing the menopause or perimenopause.
In total, 120 people have now attended 12 six-week courses - and 62 employers have signed a "menopause pledge". 
Organisers say the Menopause and Me project works to "break barriers and empower individuals".
Suffolk Libraries said six social groups were started in Stowmarket, Kesgrave, Gainsborough, Chantry, Hadleigh and Newmarket so women could "find support, encouragement and understanding from others". 
Suffolk Mind also delivered 12 six-week courses to more than 120 people, with 100 people on a waiting list for future courses in 2024, it added. 
Courses were also run to help employers provide more support. 
Corrina Hanley, from Suffolk Mind, said: "Suffolk employers receiving this training is a very positive step to ensuring workplaces are meeting their team's needs and managers feel able to support staff through menopause."
Diane Danzebrink, founder and director of Menopause Support, said what had been delivered was "brilliant and vital". 
"We don't have this at a national level and what Suffolk Libraries has recognised is there is a need within the county and they're going to do a huge amount of good. 
"I really hope they get to sustain the project into the future."
Gina Long, patron of Suffolk Libraries, who helped launch the project, said: "Through open dialogue and education, and bringing together diverse perspectives, we aspire to break barriers and empower individuals from all backgrounds to navigate the menopause journey with confidence and support."
Jen Evans, who runs a group in Kesgrave, said: "I see Suffolk Libraries Menopause & Me project to be a real game changer for women in the county who have so many questions about this transitional stage and feel like they've nowhere to turn."
She said there was a need for a mid-life group "finding out whether it's normal to leave your car keys in the sugar bowl".
Hannah Taylor, from Suffolk business Kingsfleet, said: "It made so much sense to sign up, become better informed and link up with other like-minded businesses."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
