CHICAGO (AP) — Prosecutors on Friday 
charged R&B star R. Kelly
 with 10 counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse involving four female victims, including three who were younger than 17. Below are details of the allegations in the grand jury indictments and outlined by the Cook County state’s attorney. Kelly’s attorney says the singer strongly denies the charges:
Case 1
Initials: H.W.
Incidents occurred between: May 26, 1998, to May 25, 1999
Kelly faces: 4 counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse
Additional details: H.W. met Kelly at a restaurant where she was celebrating her 16th birthday, which she told the singer. Kelly’s manager gave her Kelly’s business card with the singer’s personal phone number on it and said Kelly wanted her to call.
The girl’s mother overheard the exchange and took the card, telling the manager her daughter was only 16. The girl later took the card from her mother’s purse and called Kelly, who told her to take a cab to his studio after her father had dropped her off at school.
Kelly had sex with her at his studio then told her to get an envelope of money from the receptionist, which contained “a large sum of money.”
The girl had sexual encounters with Kelly about once a month for a year.
Case 2
Initials: R.L.
Incident occurred between: Sept. 26, 1998, and Sept. 25, 2001
Kelly faces: 2 counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse
Additional details: Prosecutors have a video showing R. Kelly having sex with a girl who repeatedly says that she’s 14 years old. They received the video from the attorney of a man who was asked to retrieve it after talking with R. Kelly and the singer’s associates in 2001. The witness got the video, watched it and eventually turned it over to the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office.

        
    
The witness identified the girl in the video as the niece of an unnamed person, who later identified the girl as her niece.
The witness also said he could tell the video was made at Kelly’s home in suburban Chicago.
Case 3
Initials: L.C.
Incident occurred on: Feb. 18, 2003
Kelly faces: 1 count of aggravated criminal sexual abuse
Additional details: A 24-year-old woman who worked as a hairdresser for Kelly was waiting alone in a room for the singer so she could braid his hair. After Kelly came in, he said he didn’t want his hair braided that day. With his pants pulled down, he said he wanted his head massaged and pointed to his penis.
Kelly grabbed the woman by the head and tried to force her to perform oral sex but she was able to resist. Kelly then masturbated and ejaculated onto the woman and spit in her face. The shirt she was wearing was submitted to the Illinois State Police for DNA testing and a semen sample matched Kelly’s DNA profile.
Case 4
Initials: J.P.
Incidents occurred between: May 1, 2009, and Jan. 31, 2010
Kelly faces: 3 counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse
Additional details: The girl attended Kelly’s 2008 pornography trial, where he gave her his autograph after court one day. She told Kelly how old she was and he invited her to his house. Between May 1, 2009 and Jan. 31, 2010, Kelly had sex several multiple times with the girl, who was 16 at the time. Sometimes he would spit on her, slap her face and choke her.
The victim saved one of the shirts she was wearing when Kelly ejaculated on it and gave it to the Olympia Fields, Illinois, police department. It was submitted for DNA testing.
See the AP’s 
full coverage of the investigations
 into R. Kelly.
