Mobile phone companies have been urged to help make the devices harder to steal after the number of thefts increased. 
Apple, Samsung, Google, Motorola, Nokia and the phone networks met London's mayor and the Met Police commissioner at a conference at City Hall.
They were told they all had a role in "designing out" the ability for stolen phones to be reused.
Recent figures show 57,174 phones were stolen in London alone over 12 months.
The statistics, from the Met Police, show from September 2022 until August this year, there was a 28% increase in mobile phone robbery and a 22% rise in theft of mobile phones.
Over five years, there has been a 73% rise in mobile phone thefts in the capital, from 26,322 to 45,469.
Met Commissioner Sir Mark Rowley said at the meeting: "We all have a role in helping to crush the criminal market that fuels robbery and design out the ability for stolen phones to be used in the way they currently are."
Mayor of London Sadiq Khan said he was sure there were things phone companies could be doing.
"We're going to work with them in a collegial way, about what sharing there can be between police, City Hall and these companies from intelligence, from engineering innovation and other things as well," he said.
Ahead of the meeting, City Hall said existing security measures, including pin, fingerprint and facial ID, were not deterring criminals from stealing mobile phones.
Measures discussed included:
The meeting also looked at ways to prevent identity fraud whereby criminals used stolen phones to access electronic payment apps, bank accounts and other personal information. 
Hamish MacLeod, chief executive of Mobile UK, the trade association for the UK's mobile network operators, said phones already had several capabilities to deter theft, including allowing users "to track and disable mobile handsets".
Nevertheless, he said he welcomed the opportunity to discuss other measures, such as prioritising mobile theft and prosecutions.
Source: City Hall / Met Police
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
