Police have issued advice to motorists in the wake of thefts from cars in Peterborough and Wisbech spiking over the past few weeks.Cambridgeshire Police said they had received 37 reports of thefts in Wisbech since 1 June, and 66 reports in Peterborough.The thefts have seen cash, sat navs, sports equipment, laptops, purses and wallets, bank cards, tools, sunglasses, clothes, bags, passports, mobile phones, toiletries and headphones stolen.Some arrests have been made, but the force has offered a few pointers to motorists on keeping their belongings safe.
Tips from Cambridgeshire PoliceAlways lock it: Fuelling or popping back into your house to get something are perfect examples of how easy it is to turn your back for a moment and forget your vehicle is unsecured. If your vehicle has wing mirrors that fold in automatically when locked, make sure you lock it properly. Criminal gangs are looking for vehicles like these where the wing mirrors are still out because it is clear to them that the vehicle has been left unlocked.Close windows and the sunroof: Leaving windows and the sunroof open invites fishing for items through the gap by hand or with, say, a bent coat hanger. Thieves can be ingenious.Secure your number plates with tamper-resistant screws: The easiest way to change the identity of a stolen vehicle or avoid speeding tickets and parking tickets is to fit stolen number plates. Using security screws to attach your vehicle’s number plates makes it harder for thieves to get your number.
Fit locking, anti-tamper wheel nuts to secure alloy wheels: Stolen wheels are valuable, either as parts or for their scrap value. Using locking wheel nuts reduces the risk of your vehicle’s wheels being stolen.Secure anything that’s on the outside of your vehicle: Anything left on roof-racks, on tailgate racks, in holiday top boxes or in tool chests is easily stolen when the vehicle is parked. The use of cable locks, padlocks and self-locking tool chests, which are secured to the vehicle, makes them more secure.
Follow Cambridgeshire news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
