The Home Office has apologised to a human-rights activist held at Gatwick Airport by the Border Force.
Sayed Ahmed Alwadei, who campaigns for human rights in Bahrain, was detained for two and a half hours in September 2023, after returning from Geneva.
Mr Alwadei, a refugee who has indefinite leave to remain in the UK, was told by Home Office lawyers he had been "unlawfully detained".
The Home Office said it could not comment on individual cases.
Mr Alwadei said border officials had stopped him, after a trip to speak to United Nations officials about human rights in Bahrain.
The previous month, he had been detained after a trip to South Africa. 
An apology sent to Mr Alwadei's lawyers said: "The home secretary has reviewed his records and accepts that your client was unlawfully detained. 
"Your client's immigration records have been checked and the records updated to make sure this does not happen in the future.
"The secretary of state is unable to discern what powers were purported to be exercised."
Mr Alwadei previously made a complaint of racism against former Conservative MP Bob Stewart, which resulted in Stewart being convicted of a racially aggravated offence last year.
He told BBC News a number of his interactions with the UK government, including his application for citizenship, had been delayed. 
And he thought the airport delays were connected to a deal signed between Prime Minister Rishi Sunak and the crown prince of Bahrain in July last year. 
"I have been a very critical voice in relation to exposing human-rights violations in Bahrain," Mr Alwadei said.
"I believe this is coming at a personal cost."
A Home Office official said it did not comment on individual cases, adding: "Border Force's number-one priority is to keep our borders safe and secure - and we will never compromise on this. 
"Officers may stop any arriving passenger for the purposes of further examination where they are not immediately satisfied that they qualify for entry."
Mr Alwadei's lawyers said he had been offered "hundreds of pounds" in compensation for the detention but the final amount was yet to be agreed.
