A senior Lincolnshire county councillor has written to the new home secretary requesting a meeting about the use of RAF Scampton as an asylum centre.
Richard Butroid said he remained convinced the base was not "an appropriate site".
West Lindsey District Council is awaiting a ruling on the plans following a judicial review.
Speaking in the Commons, James Cleverly said he remained committed to "drive down the need" for RAF Scampton.
The Home Office wants to house up to 2,000 single male asylum seekers on land at the former base and also plans to use MDP Wethersfield, near Braintree, Essex, to house up to 1,700 asylum seekers.
Ministers have argued placing asylum seekers on these sites would be cheaper than using hotels.
In his letter, Mr Butroid, who represents West Lindsey on the county council and is an executive member of the authority, said the Home Office had failed to take into account myriad factors with its plan.
"I remain of the opinion that RAF Scampton is not an appropriate site for such proposals," he wrote.
Mr Butroid said the government plans threatened a regeneration proposal for the former base which "had been years" in the making.
"The deal was set to secure over £300m investment into Lincolnshire's economy to preserve, protect and enhance the site," he wrote.
Sir Edward Leigh, the Conservative MP for the area, has also asked to meet the home secretary.
Speaking in the Commons on Wednesday, the MP pointed out that Wethersfield was based in Mr Cleverly's Essex constituency.
The home secretary has previously said that site was not "appropriate for asylum accommodation".
"I feel that he feels my pain," Sir Edward told the Commons.
Mr Cleverly replied: "I am now in a position where I have to be careful in terms of the comments I make, certainly about RAF Wethersfield, I do not intend to abuse my position as home secretary."
He agreed to meet Mr Leigh and added: "What I am absolutely committed to do is to drive down the need for RAF Scampton, RAF Wethersfield, just as we have driven down the need for hotel accommodation."
Follow BBC East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
