Any reform of the political institutions in Northern Ireland should happen before the next assembly elections, Leo Varadkar has said.
The taoiseach (Irish prime minister) was speaking while in Washington DC.
He said any changes, such as how first and deputy first ministers were elected or the capacity for one party to have a veto, should happen before voters go to the polls again. 
However he added that Stormont parties would need to agree on any changes.
Mr Varadkar also acknowledged that elections were "a while away".
The taoiseach later attended the Ireland Funds dinner with First Minister Michelle O'Neill and Deputy First Minister Emma Little-Pengelly. 
He went on to say that now was not the time for a border poll. 
Responding to Sinn Féin adverts placed in US newspapers calling for a border poll, he said while he had not seen them, any "demand for a border poll or date for one" was unhelpful.
"The Good Friday Agreement is clear. It sets out a pathway for unity, but only at time when the majority of people north and south want that," he said.
"The conditions that are set out in the Good Friday Agreement for a border poll are nowhere near being met," he told BBC News NI. 
"The majority of people in Northern Ireland don't want unification at the minute and pressing for that makes it harder for the institutions to work," he said.
Politicians in Northern Ireland have only recently returned to power-sharing devolved government after a gap of two years. 
Mr Varadkar said a period of "bedding down" was needed and the focus should be allowing the NI assembly to do its job. 
"I am really glad that I am coming here with the first and deputy first ministers, that the executive is up and running and I looking forward to the north south ministerial in person meeting in April," he said.
"I am looking forward to making sure the Good Friday Agreement institutions are operating," he added.
The taoiseach also said he would be discussing the Israel-Gaza war with the US president. 
"The situation is in Gaza is catastrophic and of great concern," he said. 
He said he believed that President Biden's "heart is in the right place".
He added that the president was working with other countries in the Middle East to "try and get Israel and Hamas to agree to ceasefire".
"I will put across the strong view of the Irish people that there should be an immediate ceasefire, so hostages can be released, so that medicine and food that's desperately needed can get into Gaza but we need a pathway to a just and lasting peace," he said.
Mr Varadkar said there was "no total victory or military solution to this".
"I think Prime Minister Netanyahu is wrong about that but there is a the possibility of a peace process.
"Perhaps we can bring a little bit of our experience in Ireland to bear," he said, before adding, "I know it is a very different situation".
Economy Minister Conor Murphy will also be in Washington, along with Stormont Speaker Edwin Poots.
Education Minister Paul Givan is joining the delegation in Washington, where he will be lobbying to secure extra investment for childcare.
Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) leader Sir Jeffrey Donaldson is also making the trip.
