There’s a lot going on in the Triangle this weekend. Here are our picks.
Bugfest - Ants will take centerstage at this annual celebration of insects and other creepy crawly bugs on Saturday at the N.C. Museum of Natural Sciences in downtown Raleigh. It is the 20th year for this free festival.
CenterFest Arts Festival - Produced and presented by the Durham Arts Council, CenterFest is the longest-running street arts festival in North Carolina. Enjoy live music and performances and enjoy work from more than 140 artists during this weekend’s event in downtown Durham.
SparkCon - If you have an interest, there is likely a “spark” for it this weekend in downtown Raleigh. There will be events about music, film, art, fashion, circus and even geek. Events start on Thursday and run through Sunday.
Dragon Boat Festival - Head to Koka Booth Amphitheater in Cary on Saturday for this annual event, which features dragon boat racing, live music and food. Admission is free.
Apex Music Festival - This annual music fest returns to Salem Street for its sixth year on Saturday. There will be live music, food trucks, beer and wine gardens, artist demos and more. Admission is $10.
Creedmoor Music Festival - This event is an annual tradition held on the third Saturday in September. Featuring family fun for all ages including more than 100 delicious food and craft vendors, free children’s activities, live demonstration and all genres of music from local and regional bands. The fun starts at 8:30 a.m. Saturday.

        
    
Beats and Bars Festival - Head to the Pinhook in Durham for this event Friday and Saturday. It will feature a beat battle, Yo! NC Raps and open mic. This year’s performers include Kooley High, Big Remo and J.K. The Reaper.
Joel Lane’s Block Party - The Joel Lane Museum House will hold this fall fundraiser featuring an afternoon of local food and beer, the Counterclockwise String Band and activities for the entire family. The event is Sunday starting at 2:30 p.m.
Kinky Boots - Broadway’s huge-hearted, high-heeled hit is playing DPAC through Sunday. With songs by Grammy and Tony winning pop icon Cyndi Lauper, this joyous musical celebration is about the friendships we discover and the belief that you can change the world when you change your mind.
Brad Paisley - The country star will play Coastal Credit Union at Walnut Creek on Sunday night.
Boney James and Damien Escobar - They will be playing Red Hat Amphitheater on Friday night.
Schoolboy Q - See him at The Ritz Friday night.
Southern Culture on the Skids - The band plays Cat’s Cradle Saturday night.
Carolina Ballet’s La Mer - The Carolina Ballet season opener is a world premiere by Choreographer in Residence, Zalman Raffael, set to Claude Debussy’s La Mer. It premieres on Thursday and dates run through Oct. 2 at Fletcher Opera Theater.
Beers for Beagles - The Triangle Beagle Rescue of North Carolina is teaming up with Lonerider Brewery for this event on Sunday afternoon. In addition to your usual Lonerider favorites, you will be able to sample beagle inspired brews. One dollar from each pint sold will be donated to the beagles.
Ed Mitchell’s Brews and Cue Night at the Garden - Pitmaster Ed Mitchell will be bringing his new food truck to the Raleigh Beer Garden for this event on Saturday. He will be on hand serving up food until 5 p.m. or the food runs out.
Raleigh Brewing Oktoberfest - Say hello to Fall with Raleigh Brewing’s Annual Oktoberfest Party Friday night. There will be authentic live music from the Little German Band, two food trucks and the “world’s largest photo booth.” They will also be giving away 300 Oktoberfest mugs.
Raleigh Beer Week 2016 - Raleigh Beer Week, eight days of beer dinners, beer tastings and “beer everything” spread throughout various venues in Raleigh, kicks off Sunday.
Canes 5K - This fourth annual race is happening around PNC Arena Saturday morning.
Cary Scavenger Hunt - Think you know Cary? Get a team and compete for trophies and cash prizes as you travel around town finding answers to clue questions about public art, history, event venues, locally owned businesses, schools parks and greenways and more. The scavenger hunt is Saturday.
