Assaults on officers are increasing, according to a policing union. It wants to see offenders who attack police given jail sentences. In the year up to June, there were 38,079 assaults on officers in England - up 6% from three years ago but in Cambridgeshire assaults have risen by 18%. What is it like for those who go out on patrol?
"I've been punched, kicked, been spat on and bitten to the point where they've gone through my skin," says PC Simon Clark, who has been an officer in Peterborough for six years. 
"I've been stabbed in the leg with a pair of scissors - more times than I can count."
While out on patrol on a Friday night in the city, the 27-year-old tells the BBC he feels assaults are getting worse. 
"People change in a split second. When they run you don't know what you're going into - loads of times I've had a weapon pulled on me. 
"They just don't care for the police any more. I think they look on us as the common enemy and they just attack us a lot of the time."
Figures published by the Home Office from police force data show that in the year up to June 2023, there were 587 assaults on police officers in Cambridgeshire - an increase of 18% from three years ago, when there were 497 assaults.
The force's own figures show the number of assaults on officers resulting in injury has also risen in the year up to September 2023 by 6% to 73.
One incident captured by police bodycam showed a man verbally abusing and spitting at officers as they arrested him for being drunk and disorderly in Peterborough city centre.
Charlie Spurrier had to be restrained in an ambulance after he repeatedly bashed his own head on bars in a police van, falling unconscious.
The 22-year-old, of no fixed address, pleaded guilty to three counts of assaulting an emergency worker, racially-aggravated assault, and a racially-aggravated public order offence at Cambridge Magistrates’ Court.
He was sentenced to a total of 33 weeks in prison, including the activation of a previously-suspended 12-week sentence for assault.
PC Zakai Wolffe, 20, has been an officer for a year. 
He had been in the job for just two weeks when he was racially abused on a call-out.
"I've been pushed, punched and kicked," he says. "It has an impact on your mental health. 
"You seem to think about it 24/7 - it doesn't leave your head."
"Jobs can turn into the most horrible thing possible," he adds.
"You just have to prepare yourself for the worst that can happen. You expect it every day."
Tonight he is working with PC Chris Jones, 24, who has been an officer for nearly three years.
They are called to arrest a man who was reported to have assaulted another motorist.
"Coming to this job we heard there are reports of violence, so we think could there be more?", PC Jones says.
"It doesn't matter if it's a burglary in progress or a low-level shoplifting, that fear is always at the back of your head."
He adds: "I've been to plenty of jobs where officers have been assaulted where they've pressed their red button the radio and we've all had to run out to their rescue."
Body searches of suspects can lead to conflict, according to PC Lauren Hills, 19, who has been a police officer for 10 months.
"Most of the time if people have things on them that they don't want us to find they aren't very compliant and they can kick off," she says. 
"We have to search them for their safety and our safety."
Senior officers at Cambridgeshire Police say officers who have been assaulted get "a lot of support from senior management".
"We're really encouraging officers to report these assaults, " says Insp Ricky Passam. 
"It's up to officers to give us a picture of what's happening out there."
The Police Federation in Peterborough and Cambridgeshire says there has been an increase in racial attacks, and an increase in spitting. 
Chair Liz Groom said: "I would like to see it as a custodial offence for assaulting a police officer if there's no mitigation. 
"Most officers have had some form of assault - it seems to be more socially acceptable.  
"It shouldn't be part of the job but sadly it is."
The Home Office said: "Assaults on members of our emergency services are completely unacceptable and will not be tolerated.
"This is why the government doubled the maximum penalty for assaulting an emergency worker so those convicted face up to two years' imprisonment."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
