The license plates were the first sign that this car show was a bit different.
“4GET OIL” “GAS LOL” and “LOVE EV2”
An electric car — and bicycle — show on the campus of Creighton University on Sunday drew a steady flow of viewers.
For the most part, it seemed like any other car show: Proud owners chatting with admiring, even envious spectators.
Don Cox, a retired professor of electrical engineering, exhibited his cherry red Tesla roadster.
It is one of four Teslas that the Lincoln resident owns.
“They’re the future,” Cox said. “Environmentally, electric vehicles are better than anything else. They’re good for national security, they’re convenient.”
Omahan Brenda Moskovits of the Sierra Club cited convenience as one of the things she likes about her electric car. She doesn’t have to stop by a gas station because she charges her car at home.
“I would hope we’re at a tipping point where more people would think about driving an electric rather than an internal combustion engine,” she said.
Price can be an obstacle to buying an electric vehicle. Most entry-level electric vehicles are about $30,000, but the Tesla is much higher.
But incentives and rebates can significantly lower the price.
According to information provided at Creighton on Sunday, a limited number of rebates are available through the Omaha Public Power District that trim $4,500 from the cost of an electric car and charging station.

        
    
Additionally, Nissan provides a $3,000 incentive to purchase a new Leaf, and the federal government offers up to $7,500 in tax incentives.
Not everyone was focused on four-wheel vehicles. Mark Deane was downright evangelistic about his electric bicycle.
Deane, 54, said he discovered electric bikes several months ago. He has had triple bypass surgery and was looking around for a tolerable way to get some exercise when he and his wife rented electric bikes. On their first ride, they were sold, he said.
“ We are now everyday riders,” he said.
An electric bike, he said, allows him to get his joints moving without wearing him down.
“My knees are better, my diet is better, everything’s better,” he said.
