AUSTIN - It will likely take at least $2 billion in state funds to help cover the damage from Hurricane Harvey, State Comptroller Glenn Hegar said Tuesday, a piece of more than $6 billion in budget challenges facing lawmakers when they next meet in regular session.
“This event, being from the edge of Corpus (Christi) all the way to the Sabine River - this is going to be very costly especially for the school district side … We already know Hurricane Harvey is going to cost more from the state perspective than any hurricane has ever cost,” Hegar told the San Antonio Express-News in an interview. “We’ve got to rebuild Texas and make sure the economy is strong and people’s lives are put back together.”
Hegar answered questions about the state budget as he released his updated estimate of the funds expected to come into the state in the next two years. After taking into account legislative action and an updated economic picture, he said lawmakers will have a balance of just $94 million after paying for the current two-year spending plan.
That’s a tiny amount compared to the budget, which totals well over $216 billion in state and federal money over two years.
“Anything less than $300 million is budget dust, as we would call it around here,” Hegar said. “I hate to say it in those terms because that’s a lot of money,” but it “barely moves the needle” in the overall budget picture.

        
    
Besides state costs associated with Harvey — which Hegar said could be as high as $2.5 billion in addition to more substantial federal assistance that is expected to roll in — lawmakers face other budget issues.
They will have to cover about $2 billion in Medicaid costs when they return in regular session in January 2019, he said.
Leaders have said they are willing to dip into the state’s multi-billion-dollar rainy day fund for the Harvey funding, much of which could be addressed in a supplemental spending measure. Lingering Medicaid expenses also are typically addressed through a supplemental spending bill, while other costs can be addressed in the next two-year appropriations measure.
Lawmakers also will have to cover an extra $1.58 billion in transportation funding, a cost that they pushed off from the current budget cycle to the next one as lawmakers juggled funds this year to address a tight budget.
That’s on top of billions in tax revenue that will continue to be funneled directly to transportation under a proposition approved by voters, tying lawmakers’ hands since the money otherwise could have gone to general spending.
Other challenges include the need to put $300 million to $350 million into a state-sponsored prepaid college tuition plan, and the loss of $450 million in revenue when a federal law kicks in that bans state taxes on internet access.
Hegar emphasized that the economy is healthy, despite the budget challenges, and is expected to grow at a rate smaller than in the past but larger than the nation’s performance.
He also said that Hurricane Harvey, while requiring substantial spending, isn’t expected to have a significant effect on the revenues coming into state government.
There may be a difference in timing in collecting certain state revenues, such as taxes due on the sales of motor vehicles, he said. People may replace lost or damaged cars earlier than expected.
[email protected]
