Parts of East and West Sussex have been hit by lightning strikes overnight after the Met Office issued a thunderstorm warning. Four engines from East Sussex Fire & Rescue Service (ESFRS) were called to a fire at two homes in Polegate, following a lightning strike. The roof of a care home in Elmer was damaged after being struck, while a university building in Chichester also sustained damage to its roof and power system, said West Sussex Fire & Rescue Service (WSFRS).The services said no-one was injured in the incidents.
ESFRS was called at 01:05 BST to reports of a lightning strike at the Brookside Avenue properties in Polegate. The service said crews put the fire out using pumping equipment and a hosereel jet and conducted smoke clearance.Home visits were also carried out at neighbouring properties.
WSFRS crews were called to Beach View, a residential home for adults with learning disabilities, in Alleyne Way in Elmer at 01:45 BST.Jim Mackay, from West Sussex Fire & Rescue Service, told BBC Sussex that alongside "severe damage" to the property's gable-end wall, a first-floor bathroom and bedroom in which a resident was sleeping had been affected."Because the storm was at its height, the thunder and lightning was continuing, we had torrential rain at that point flooding the roads, so even the access into the location was quite tricky." But firefighters were able to move eight residents and two staff to other rooms in the building, where they received medical checks.They have now been moved to a rest centre in Bognor Regis while repairs take place to the home.
Maureen Kemp, who lives nearby, told BBC Sussex she managed to sleep through the incident. But she said her granddaughter was "awake all night with the ambulance, and the fire brigade and police and everything, so she's a bit tired today"."All the [residents] are well and that's the main thing."Fire crews were also called to university halls in College Lane, Chichester at 02:25.Mark Barlow from the University of Chichester, said up to 35 students - who were initially evacuated to its chapel - were being moved into temporary accommodation while repairs took place. Mr Mackay said the service had received "a couple of other calls across the county" related to thunderstorms. Lightning was also captured by BBC Weather Watchers in parts of East Sussex, including Brighton and Hove, overnight.
A yellow thunderstorm warning covering the south-east of England was issued by the Met Office between 23:00 BST on Wednesday until 06:00 on Thursday.The Met Office had warned lightning strikes could lead to public transport delays, while there was a "small chance" homes and businesses could be flooded, with damage to some buildings from floodwater, lightning, hail or strong winds.
Follow BBC Sussex on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250.
