The 2023 Associated Press All-American Team:
Quarterback — Jayden Daniels, fifth-year, LSU.
Running backs — Ollie Gordon II, second-year, Oklahoma State; Cody Schrader, sixth-year, Missouri.
Tackles — Joe Alt, third-year, Notre Dame; Olu Fashanu, fourth-year, Penn State.
Guards — Cooper Beebe, fifth-year, Kansas State; Zak Zinter, fourth-year, Michigan.
Center — Jackson Powers-Johnson, third-year, Oregon.
Tight end — Brock Bowers, third-year, Georgia.
Wide receivers — Malik Nabers, third-year, LSU; Marvin Harrison Jr., third-year, Ohio State; Rome Odunze, fourth-year, Washington.
All-purpose player — Travis Hunter, second-year, Colorado.
Kicker — Graham Nicholson, third-year, Miami (Ohio).
Edge rushers — Laiatu Latu, fifth-year, UCLA; Jalen Green, fifth-year, James Madison.
Interior linemen — T’Vondre Sweat, fifth-year, Texas; Jer’Zahn Newton, fourth-year, Illinois.
Linebackers — Payton Wilson, sixth-year, North Carolina State; Edgerrin Cooper, fourth-year, Texas A&M; Dallas Turner, third-year, Alabama.
Cornerbacks — Cooper DeJean, third-year, Iowa; Kool-Aid McKinstry, third-year, Alabama.
Safeties — Malaki Starks, second-year, Georgia; Xavier Watts, fourth-year, Notre Dame.
Defensive back — Terrion Arnold, third-year, Alabama.
Punter — Tory Taylor, fourth-year, Iowa.
Quarterback — Michael Penix Jr., sixth-year, Washington.
Running backs — Audric Estime, third-year, Notre Dame; Omarion Hampton, second-year, North Carolina.

        
    
Tackles — Taliese Fuaga, fourth-year, Oregon State; JC Latham, third-year, Alabama.
Guards — Tate Ratledge, fourth-year, Georgia; Clay Webb, fifth-year, Jacksonville State.
Center — Sedrick Van Pran, fourth-year, Georgia.
Tight ends — Dallin Holker, fifth-year, Colorado State.
Wide receivers — Troy Franklin, third-year, Oregon; Malik Washington, fifth-year, Virginia; Luther Burden III, second-year, Missouri.
All-purpose player — Ashton Jeanty, second-year, Boise State.
Kicker — Jose Pizano, third-year, UNLV.
Edge rushers — Jonah Elliss, third-year, Utah; Jared Verse, fourth-year, Florida State.
Interior linemen — Byron Murphy II, third-year, Texas; Howard Cross III, fifth-year, Notre Dame.
Linebackers — Jeremiah Trotter Jr., third-year, Clemson; Jason Henderson, third-year, Old Dominion; Jay Higgins, fourth-year, Iowa.
Cornerbacks — Quinyon Mitchell, fourth-year, Toledo; Beanie Bishop Jr., sixth-year, West Virginia.
Safeties — Tyler Nubin, fifth-year, Minnesota; Caleb Downs, first-year, Alabama.
Defensive back — Kris Abrams-Draine, fourth-year, Missouri.
Punter — Matthew Hayball, sixth-year, Vanderbilt.
Quarterbacks — Bo Nix, fifth-year, Oregon.
Running backs — Blake Corum, fourth-year, Michigan; Kimani Vidal, fourth-year, Troy.
Tackles — Javon Foster, sixth-year, Missouri; Troy Fautanu, fifth-year, Washington.
Guards — Christian Haynes, sixth-year, UConn; Luke Kandra, fourth-year, Cincinnati.
Center — Zach Frazier, fourth-year, West Virginia.
Tight end — Ben Sinnott, fourth-year, Kansas State.
Wide receivers — Ricky White, fourth-year, UNLV; Brian Thomas Jr., third-year, LSU; Tetairoa McMillan, second-year, Arizona.
All-purpose player — Xavier Worthy, third-year, Texas.
Kicker — Will Reichard, fifth-year, Alabama.
Edge rushers —Chop Robinson, third-year, Penn State; Bralen Trice, fifth-year, Washington.
Interior linemen — Kris Jenkins, fourth-year, Michigan; Braden Fiske, sixth-year, Florida State.
Linebackers — Nathaniel Watson, sixth-year, Mississippi State; Edefuan Ulofoshio, sixth-year, Washington; Danny Stutsman, third-year, Oklahoma.
Cornerbacks — Ricardo Hallman, third-year, Wisconsin; T.J. Tampa, fourth-year, Iowa State.
Safeties — Trey Taylor, fifth-year, Air Force; Dillon Thieneman, first-year, Purdue.
Defensive back — Sebastian Castro, fifth-year, Iowa.
Punter — James Ferguson-Reynolds, second-year, Boise State.
Voting panel: Ryan Aber, The Oklahoman; Bob Asmussen, The News-Gazette (Ill.); Matt Baker, Tampa Bay Times; Kirk Bohls, Austin American-Statesman; Robert Cessna, Bryan-College Station Eagle; Adam Cole, Opelika-Auburn News; Josh Furlong, KSL.com (Utah); David Jablonski, Dayton Daily News; Steven Johnson, Fort Worth Star-Telegram; Chad Leistikow, Des Moines Register; Greg Madia, The Daily Progress (Va.); Johnny McGonigal, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette; Dave Preston, WTOP (Washington D.C.); Dave Reardon, Honolulu Star-Advertiser; Creg Stephenson, Alabama Media Group; Ryan Thorburn, Casper Star-Tribune; Jon Wilner, San Jose Mercury News; James Williams, Southern California News Group.
