The States Assembly has rejected plans for a separate debate on the funding of a new hospital in Jersey. The proposals were put forward by Deputy Jonathan Renouf who said it was "the single largest infrastructure project the island had ever taken" and that it should be properly scrutinised in a separate debate. The planned new hospital at Overdale in St Helier includes building a new accident and emergency department, critical care unit and operating theatres.The New Healthcare Facilities Programme's plans for the multi-site hospital have been estimated to cost more than £700m.
The government had wanted discussions on the new hospital funding to be part of a debate on the government plan - the wider budget which will be debated in November. Mr Renouf, speaking before the votes were cast said the hospital project would have implications for years to come.He said: "It makes sense to me that even though we want this to happen, we want this to happen fast, we still need to keep an eye on the expenditure and the clearest and simplest way to do that is if it's wrapped up in a single debate." He added: "The government plan debate will take about three days at least."There were more than 30 amendments to the last government plan and in amongst that you will have to find all the relevant information that relates to the hospital." While some politicians spoke in support of Mr Renouf's proposal others had concerns about the proposition. Deputy Sir Philip Bailhache said a separate proposal on the funding "opened up a myriad of opportunities to derail the hospital project." 
In the vote, 31 States members were against the plans while 13 voted in favour. Deputy Elaine Millar, Treasury Minister, welcomed the result. She said: "It makes absolute sense to consider one of our biggest funding requirements in the context of the government plan and the budget as a whole."I don't think it means we will be any less open or transparent or members won't have information available to them."Mrs Millar added: "There is quite a significant cost to building a hospital."We will have to develop quite a sophisticated funding package and it would be quite disturbing for members to bring amendments to that, it is a very complex matter."The hospital funding plans will now be debated as part of wider discussion on the government plan, which will be brought to the assembly later this year.
Follow BBC Jersey on X (formerly Twitter) and Facebook. Send your story ideas to channel.islands@bbc.co.uk.
