Bob Menendez is to resign from the US Senate after being convicted of accepting bribes including gold bars to help foreign governments.The New Jersey Democrat had been resisting calls to step down, including from Democratic Senate Majority leader Chuck Schumer. His resignation comes a day after the Senate's ethics committee began a review on his expulsion.The former head of the Senate foreign relations committee was found guilty on 16 counts of taking bribes to aid the Qatari and Egyptian governments, and faces a lengthy prison term when he is sentenced on 29 October.Jurors were told that FBI agents discovered more than $480,000 (£370,452) in cash stuffed in envelopes and coats in Menendez's home, along with gold bars worth more than $100,000. Some of the bullion was presented as evidence.The 70-year-old maintains his innocence, saying after his conviction that he "never violated my public oath". In his resignation letter to Phil Murphy, New Jersey's governor, Menendez said he was proud of his accomplishments in the Senate and that while he intended to appeal his conviction, "I do not want the Senate to be involved in a lengthy process that will detract from its important work".The resignation notice, effective on August 20, was also read on the Senate floor. Menendez was first elected to the House of Representatives in 1993. He was later appointed to the Senate in 2006 by John Corzine, who resigned his seat after being elected governor of New Jersey. A previous bribery and conspiracy charges ended in a mistrial in 2017. However, a nine-week trial this year ended in a guilty verdict.Two businessmen, Wael Hana and Fred Daibes, are also being tried on accusations that they sought out the senator to illegally aid the Egyptian government and secure millions of dollars from a Qatari investment fund. They deny the charges.A third businessman, Jose Uribe, pleaded guilty and gave evidence against Menendez in the trial.New Jersey Representative Andy Kim won the Democratic nomination to run for Senate in June, beating Tammy Murphy, the wife of New Jersey's governor. The New York Times reported that Menendez could theoretically run for re-election as an independent, potentially siphoning votes from the Democrats at a time when the party is heavily focused on maintaining the Senate and White House. A trial against his wife on bribery and obstruction charges has been postponed indefinitely while she recovers from breast cancer surgery.
