An international chess champion died days after a "complex Caesarean section", an inquest has heard.
Sue Yuchan Maroroa Jones, 32, died at the Northern General Hospital in Sheffield on 10 May 2023.
On Tuesday, a hearing at the Sheffield Medico-Legal Centre was told Mrs Maroroa Jones died from sepsis seven days after giving birth to her second child.
In a tribute, her family said she had "always wanted to be a mum".
During Tuesday's hearing, assistant coroner Katy Dickinson was told Mrs Maroroa Jones had initially planned a home birth for her second child in spring 2023.
However, the decision was made to attend Jessop Wing in Sheffield on 27 April where she opted to have a Caesarean section, which medical professionals described as "complex".
Head of midwifery Laura Rumsey said Mrs Maroroa Jones lost four pints (2,300ml) of blood during the procedure, which was more than average and prompted more frequent observations post-birth.
Ms Rumsey said Mrs Maroroa Jones' care on the Whirlow Ward was described as uneventful and she was discharged on day two of her birth.
In the following days Mrs Maroroa Jones attended appointments at the Children's Centre where she reported feeling well, her wound was described as healed and no concerns were documented.
Looking at the reports, Ms Rumsey told the court: "There was nothing there at that stage that required further investigation and nothing jumps out at me (that needed) additional observations." 
However, on 4 May, the mother-of-two was admitted to hospital with symptoms consistent with sepsis and died a few days later.
In her conclusion, Ms Dickinson said Mrs Maroroa Jones had developed sepsis at the site of her Caesarean section which led to thrombosis and brain infarction.
The coroner said she did not see any missed opportunities which could have prevented Mrs Maroroa Jones' death.
Mrs Maroroa Jones held the FIDE title of Woman International Master and represented New Zealand and England in various Chess Olympiads over the years.
Paying tribute during the hearing, her husband, English Grandmaster Gawain Jones, described his wife, who was born in New Zealand, as intelligent and thoughtful. 
"She could've done anything really, but she always wanted to be a mum," he said.
"Her focus was on the children and making sure they were doing as well as they could."
Family friend Jennifer Dorward told the hearing Mrs Maroroa Jones was a "fantastic mother" who continued to be an inspiration.
Since her death, Jessop Wing said it had updated discharge documentations to include signs women should look out for post-birth.
Previous information had "focussed on newborns rather than mothers", they said.
Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
