NEW YORK (AP) — The #MeToo movement is having another moment in the spotlight as high-profile sexual assault trials play out in courtrooms from coast to coast.
Five years after
 allegations against movie mogul 
Harvey Weinstein
 triggered a wave of sexual misconduct claims in Hollywood and beyond, he and “That ’70s Show” actor 
Danny Masterson
 are fighting criminal rape charges at trials down the hall from each other in Los Angeles. 
In New York, trials are underway in sexual assault lawsuits against 
actor Kevin Spacey
 and screenwriter-director 
Paul Haggis
, both Oscar winners. Spacey’s defense rested Wednesday while lawyers for Haggis and his accuser gave opening statements in an adjacent courthouse. All of the men deny the allegations. 
A forcible touching case against another Academy Award winner, actor Cuba Gooding Jr., 
wrapped up in New York last week with a guilty plea to a non-criminal harassment violation and no jail time
, to the dismay of at least some of his accusers. 
The confluence is a coincidence, but a striking one, amid a cultural movement that has demanded visibility and accountability.
“We’re still very early on in this time of reckoning,” said Debra Katz, a Washington-based lawyer who has represented many sexual assault accusers. She isn’t involved in the Haggis, Masterson, Spacey or Weinstein trials. 
Besides their #MeToo reverberations, both Haggis’ case and Masterson’s have become forums for scrutinizing the Church of Scientology, though from different perspectives.

        
    
In 
the case against Haggis
, publicist Haleigh Breest claims that the “Crash” and “Million Dollar Baby” screenwriter forced her to perform oral sex and raped her after she reluctantly agreed to a drink in his Manhattan apartment after a 2013 movie premiere. She’s seeking unspecified damages.
She didn’t go public until after the allegations against Weinstein burst into view in 2017 and Haggis condemned him.
“The hypocrisy of it made her blood boil,” lawyer Zoe Salzman said in her opening statement.
Jurors will also hear from 
four other women who told Breest’s lawyers that Haggis
 sexually assaulted them, or attempted to do so, in separate encounters. One of them testified Wednesday, via videotaped questioning, that Haggis raped her during an after-hours meeting in her office in 1996, when both worked on a Canadian TV show.
The jury won’t hear, however, that Italian authorities this summer 
investigated a sexual assault allegation
 against Haggis, which he denied.
Haggis maintains that his encounter with Breest was consensual, and defense attorney Priya Chaudhry noted that the other women who are set to testify never took legal action of their own against him. 
“Paul Haggis is relieved that he finally gets his day in court,” Chaudhry told jurors. 
Both sides pointed to what Breest texted to a friend the day after the alleged attack. 
Her lawyer emphasized that Breest wrote that “he was so rough and aggressive. Never, ever again ... And I kept saying no.” Haggis’ attorney, meanwhile, said Breest added “lol” — common texting shorthand for laughter — when she mentioned performing oral sex, and that she told the friend she wanted to be alone with Haggis again to “see what happens.”
Chaudhry argued that Breest falsely claimed rape to angle for a payout. But the attorney also suggested another explanation for the allegations. 
Promising “circumstantial evidence,” she suggested that Scientologists ginned up Breest’s lawsuit to discredit him after he became a prominent detractor. 
The church denies any involvement, and Breest’s lawyers have called the notion a baseless conspiracy theory. 
“Scientology has nothing to do with this case” or with any of Haggis’ accusers, she told jurors. The church has said the same.
Scientology is a system of beliefs, teachings and rituals focused on spiritual betterment. Science fiction and fantasy author L. Ron Hubbard’s 1950 book “Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health” is a foundational text. 
The religion has gained a following among such celebrities as Tom Cruise, John Travolta and Kirstie Alley. But some high-profile members have broken with it, including Haggis, singer Lisa Marie Presley and actor Leah Remini. In a memoir and documentary series, Remini said the church uses manipulative and abusive tactics to indoctrinate followers into putting its goals above all else, and she maintained that it worked to discredit critics who spoke out. 
The church has vociferously disputed the claims.
Haggis says he was a Scientologist for three decades before leaving the church in 2009. He slammed it as “a cult” in a 2011 New Yorker article that later informed a 
book
 and an 
HBO documentary,
 and he foreshadowed that retribution would come in the form of “a scandal that looks like it has nothing to do with the church.” 
The church, which didn’t respond to a request for comment this week, has repeatedly said Haggis lied about its practices to get attention for himself and his career. 
Masterson’s lawyer, meanwhile, is asking jurors to disregard the actor’s affiliation with Scientology, though prosecutors say the church discouraged two of his three accusers from going to authorities. All three are former members. 
Closing arguments are scheduled for Thursday in a $40 million lawsuit brought by actor Anthony Rapp who says Spacey made a sexual pass at him in 1986, when Rapp was 14 and Spacey was 26. Spacey denies the encounter ever happened.
Weinstein is facing his second criminal trial, this time set in L.A. and involving five women and multiple rape and sexual assault charges. He is already serving a 23-year prison sentence on a 
rape and sex assault conviction
 involving two women in New York.
The Associated Press does not usually name people alleging sexual assault unless they come forward publicly, as Breest and Rapp have done. 
Associated Press writers Larry Neumeister in New York and Deepa Bharath in Los Angeles contributed.
