A jazz singer from Scunthorpe has been reflecting on her career as she prepares to perform in her home town.Sumudu Jayatilaka will appear at The Baths Hall on Friday 17 May alongside Jools Holland and his Rhythm and Blues Orchestra.The 44-year-old has previously performed for the late Queen Elizabeth. She has also worked with Rod Stewart, Burt Bacharach and Van Morrison.She said the chance to return to North Lincolnshire will be a "big night" for her family and friends.
Ms Jayatilaka grew up in Scunthorpe after her Sri Lankan parents, who are both doctors, moved to the area for work. And it was there that she discovered her passion for music.She said: "The very first instrument I was given at school was a chime bar and the teacher was trying to get all these kids to play one or two beats a bar and they just couldn't do it but I thought it was easy. "The same happened when I played the piano. An auntie was once playing, she finished and I went and played something. I just seemed to understand it".
After studying medicine at Sheffield University, Ms Jayatilaka pursued a career in music, touring with the National Youth Jazz Orchestra before performing at the Royal Albert Hall, London Palladium and events such as the BBC Proms.Ms Jayatilaka embarked on her latest tour with Jools Holland earlier this month and has performed in Brussels and the Netherlands ahead of dates in the UK.She said: "I love singing with Jools. He doesn't just want you to do backing vocals, he'll give you features or a couple of solo songs and I love that."Often, with other people, your role is very clear. You stay in the shadows or you're singing the lead. This is a mix of both and I really do love working with him."The date in Scunthorpe is not the first time Ms Jayatilaka has performed at The Baths Hall but she is expecting a different experience when she takes to the stage."I did a concert there years ago but not since it has been done up and and certainly not with Jools, which is the really exciting part. It's going to be great."Follow BBC East Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastyorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
