The University of Wisconsin women’s hockey team has played more than 2,300 minutes this season spanning 38 games.
For senior defenseman Jenny Ryan, that’s hundreds of shifts, perhaps close to 1,000 minutes on the ice and two low numbers.
Ryan has been on the ice for only 12 goals against, and only six at even strength.
The stability that Ryan and longtime defensive partner Mellissa Channell provide in the defensive zone has been lauded as one of the keys for the top-ranked Badgers, who take the nation’s best defense into Friday’s Frozen Four semifinal against No. 4 Boston College.
With Ryan, composure is nothing new. Badgers associate head coach Dan Koch said he saw it when he scouted her as a freshman in high school, trying to get the New York native to play for the Shattuck-St. Mary’s prep team he then coached.
“It was the composure, her vision on the ice, her competitiveness,” Koch said. “For her to come back from multiple knee surgeries and just lay everything out on the ice, lead our team in minutes played, probably blocked shots, too, just says a lot about who she is as a person.”
Ryan, a first-team All-Western Collegiate Hockey Association selection, has the best career plus/minus rating for a defenseman in Badgers history at plus-131. She has blocked 175 shots in her four seasons, including a team-high 41 as a senior.
Part of that is a product of being on the ice more than anyone else except goaltender Ann-Renee Desbiens. But Ryan gets that many minutes — including on the top power play and as a penalty killer — because Badgers coaches know she can handle them.

        
    
When she gets out of a regular rotation of shifts, Ryan said, it can feel like forever since she has been on the ice.
“Especially going into tough games, when you know you’re going to be playing extra minutes, you’ve got to focus a little extra and make sure that our bodies are right,” Ryan said. “You don’t get a lot of time on the bench to rest or get some water, so you just have to make sure that you’re prepared for any situation that gets thrown at you.”
In talking about Ryan’s minutes, Badgers coach Mark Johnson referenced former Badgers defenseman Ryan Suter, who routinely is among the NHL leaders in time on ice for the Minnesota Wild.
“I think once you’re in that situation for a period of time ... you get comfortable,” Johnson said. “And if you went back and gave her 15 minutes, she’d probably be uncomfortable in that game because she’s used to being out there quite a bit.”
With Ryan and Channell leading the way, the Badgers defense has allowed an average of fewer than 19 shots on goal per game.
When both have been in the lineup over their four years together at UW, they’ve been on the same defensive pair.
A connection has developed that has greatly benefited the Badgers.
“I can read which way she’s going to go in the corner,” Ryan said of Channell. “We listen to each other really well. We’re able to hear each other — we know our little words that we say and what those mean. It just works out really well.”
Back to St. Louis
The Badgers are able to chuckle now about their previous trip to the St. Louis area, which is hosting the Frozen Four. It wasn’t that funny in January.
The team was exposed to dangerous levels of carbon monoxide during its Jan. 6 game at Lindenwood in Wentzville, Missouri, because of a faulty ice resurfacer. The following day’s game was canceled.
“Thankfully, we’re not playing in the same rink,” Channell said. “That was something I would never wish upon anyone.”
The Frozen Four is taking place at Family Arena, a 9,600-seat venue in St. Charles, Missouri. The Badgers are scheduled to embark on a bus ride there after practice today.
January’s series was at Lindenwood Ice Arena, a 750-seat rink. The Badgers didn’t have any lingering effects from the carbon monoxide poisoning, but senior forward Mikayla Johnson spent four to five hours in a hospital that night.
“It was a terrible thing,” Channell said. “We were all joking about it, saying we got poisoned. The funny thing is, we actually did.”
Johnson up for award
As the coach of a team in the Frozen Four, Johnson is one of the finalists for the national coach of the year award.
The eight finalists are either Frozen Four coaches or were voted coach of the year in his or her conference.
Johnson won the national award in 2006, 2007, 2009 and 2011. This year’s winner will be announced April 28.
