It’s guaranteed - the year 2017 will figure prominently in future accounts of the history of Pasadena and surrounding communities, thanks to a number of events that produced seismic changes in schools, government and neighborhoods.
The city of Pasadena was forced by a federal judge to restructure its system of council representation after a voting rights lawsuit. Then city voters elected a new mayor and welcomed Pasadena’s first Hispanic police chief. Voters in Pasadena ISD approved a $135 million bond package and a 13 cent increase to the district tax rate. Meanwhile, the nearby community of La Porte pulled out all the stops for events celebrated its 125th anniversary.
And Hurricane Harvey caused deaths, flooded schools and scores of neighborhoods and had a lingering impact on local communities.
Changing of the guard
In January, residents reacted with mixed feelings after a federal judge ruled that the city of Pasadena had been trying to mute the Hispanic voice in municipal elections through a 2013 voter-approved change pushed by then-Mayor Johnny Isbell to add at-large members to what had been a council of district representatives. While some Hispanic residents saw an opportunity for change through the ruling, others remained less optimistic, citing a history of being marginalized by the city.
U.S. District Judge Lee Rosenthal’s decision stemmed from a 2014 lawsuit, filed by the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund on behalf of Latino voters, charging that by changing the election process, the city had attempted to diminish the Hispanic vote and as a result had violated the Voting Rights Act. Rosenthal ordered Pasadena to revert in this year’s election to a previous plan in which all eight council members were elected from districts.
In May, after eight consecutive years in office and decades of strong influence on the city’s government, Isbell was term-limited from seeking re-election. After a general election in May featuring seven candidates and then a June runoff with John Moon, the post was won by then-City Council member Jeff Wagner, a retired Houston police officer.

        
    
Wagner said his win would mean a more united and inclusive Pasadena, a city marked by economic divisions and leadership that to many ignored a growing Hispanic population. In July, the appointment of Al Espinosa as the city’s first Hispanic police chief seemed a symbolic move away from the past. Espinoza, a 37-year veteran of the Pasadena Police Department, is the son of migrant workers. Spanish-language interpreters were added at council meetings.
After Wagner’s election, the city opted to pay $1.1 million in a settlement agreement to cover the plaintiffs’ legal fees and court costs and to drop its appeal of Rosenthal’s ruling.
yes to a bond - and tax increase
In November, voters approved two measures proposed by Pasadena ISD touted as guaranteeing years of improvements and expansions throughout the district. One was a rollback election to authorize a tax-rate increase and the other a bond package.
The bond package proposes to address district-wide issues including the rebuilding of two campuses, renovation and expansion of its transportation department and upgrades for technology and security. District officials say voter approval of the package would not affect the tax rate because of an ongoing policy of managing debt through strategic payments.
The increase proposed in the rollback election is expected to put the district’s tax rate at $1.48 per $100 of valuation, effectively a 9.6 percent tax-rate hike. That adds up to $130 out of a total annual tax bill of $1,480 on a home with an after-homestead value of $100,000.
While Pasadena city officials had recently backed off a proposed increase of less than 1 cent per $100 valuation in the municipal property tax rate after residents complained about facing a hike right after Hurricane Harvey, the school district’s proposal to increase its property tax rate by 13 cents did not prompt similar opposition, with 77.69 percent approving the bond in the November election.
Harvey and its aftermath
When Harvey devastated the region, communities like Pasadena responded, whether it was to help out next door neighbors or displaced evacuees from Houston.
Churches like Golden Acres Baptist Church, South Houston Baptist and school campuses like Dobie High School opened shelters and donation centers.
The city had received nearly 550 evacuees by midweek, with many airlifted by U.S. Coast Guard helicopters to a mobile, MASH-like medical facility at City Hall, where a total of 64 medical personnel worked in shifts around the clock.
“All in all, Pasadena has been a kind of hub for other parts of the area,” Pasadena city spokesman Rex Lindberg said at the time. “We’ve had people here that were picked up off of roofs from places like Scarsdale, Conroe, north Houston and other places.”
In December, Pasadena ISD officials were still recovering from the storm damage. Harvey flooded forced the district to move Thompson Intermediate School’s students and faculty to the Collaborative Learning Center. At Burnett Elementary School in the Southbelt area, 120 displaced students did not return to the district.
The district suffered its greatest loss from Harvey with the death of four students: Devy Saldivar, 16, Dominic Saldivar, 14, Xavier Saldivar, 8 and Daisy Saldivar, 6, died while traveling with their great-grandparents and an uncle in a van that was swept away by flood waters in Houston during evacuation.
Harvey also claimed the life of longtime city of Pasadena employee Martin Salazar. Investigators believed that Salazar was swept away by flood waters after leaving his vehicle.
The city of South Houston was rocked hard by Harvey. City officials estimated that the community, with a population of just under 20,000, saw damage to 95 percent of its homes. The South Houston community also mourned the death of Alexander Sung, a beloved member of the South Houston community who had run his watch-and-clock repair business for 30 years. He was believed to have been trapped by floodwater in his shop. His body was found in the shop the morning after Harvey’s worst flooding.
Influx of new businesses
By the end of the year, the city saw the opening of four eateries at one complex: Razzoo’s Cajun Cafe, serving Louisiana dishes; Red Robin, which specializes in burgers, shakes and beers; Chuy’s, which has a Tex-Mex menu; and Outback Steakhouse, which serves a variety of food including sandwiches, burgers and steaks.
La Porte celebrates 125th
In May, the City of La Porte staged events including a four-day party at Sylvan Beach to celebrate its founding in 1892. Fireworks, live music from Clay Walker and family fun marked its 125th year.
