A much-loved landmark sculpture of a black cat that has been stolen, broken and vandalised over the years is to be moved to safety during A1 roadworks.
National Highways said the large metal feline, at the Black Cat roundabout, near Bedford, will be "looked after" during construction. 
A £950m upgrade of the A428 Black Cat route from Bedfordshire to Caxton Gibbet, in Cambridgeshire, is planned.
The artwork first appeared 20 years ago and has been replaced several times. 
The Black Cat roundabout, on the junction between the A1 and A421, just south of St Neots in Cambridgeshire, takes its name from the garage and repair workshop that was in the area in the 1920s. 
In 2004, a landmark artwork was created by four men, including Jack Pike. 
"When I retired from being a parish councillor in the early 2000s, I gathered together a few of my engineering friends and we put together a plan to construct and install a black cat statue on the roundabout," he said.  
It got its art deco style from a "pawtrait of the cat on the original garage clock tower", National Highways said.
It was due to be made from plywood "but my friend Clive said he could cut it in metal," Mr Pike added. 
As the roundabout got bigger, a larger feline was built, the original was taken down and now resides in Mr Pike's back garden.
National Highways has produced a video to document its eventful past. 
It shows how it was stolen in 2007 by "cat burglars", broken in 2013, vandalised with spray-paint, cleaned up, and had two kittens added in 2019. 
Paul Salmon, senior project manager at National Highways, said it was frequently asked what would happen to the black cat.
"We fully understand the importance of the black cat as a local landmark, and one of our project ambitions is to leave a purr-fect legacy, so, don't worry, we will be looking after the cat and her kittens during construction," he said.
They are due to remain in place until next year, and will then be removed and returned when the upgrade is due to be completed in 2027, he added. 
The new 10-mile (16km) dual carriageway will link the Black Cat roundabout to the Caxton Gibbet roundabout on the A428 between St Neots and Cambridge.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
