WASHINGTON – With less than three days left in his term, President Barack Obama on Tuesday commuted 273 more convicted felons – including two military figures convicted in connection with leaked classified documents.
Chelsea Manning – known as Bradley Manning before she transgendered to a female – and retired four-star Gen. James Cartwright were among those pardoned by Obama.
Manning, an Army private, was sentenced six years ago to a 35-year term in prison for leaking hundreds of thousand of classified military secrets to WikiLeaks while stationed in Iraq. She will now have her term in prison end May 17. The leaks included diplomatic cables and almost one half million Army Iraq War logs.
Manning said she was confronting gender dysphoria at the time of the leaks while deployed in Iraq.
Manning attempted suicide twice last year, according to her lawyers, citing her treatment at Leavenworth.
Chase Strangio, an American Civil Liberties Union attorney representing Manning, said the president’s action “quite literally save Chelsea’s life.”
“We are all better off knowing that Chelsea Manning will walk out of prison a free woman, dedicated to making the world a better place and fighting for justice for so many,” Stangio said in a statement.
Cartwright was convicted last year of lying to the FBI about leaking classified information to the news media. The Justice Department had just last week asked a federal court judge to impose a two-year prison sentence on Cartwright. He pleaded guilty to the charges last October.

        
    
Cartwright was once the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
In a statement released Tuesday, the White House said:
“Today, 273 individuals learned that the President has given them a second chance. With today’s 209 grants of commutation, the President has now commuted the sentences of 1,385 individuals – the most grants of commutation issued by any President in this nation’s history. President Obama’s 1,385 commutation grants – which includes 504 life sentences – is also more than the total number of commutations issued by the past 12 presidents combined. And with today’s 64 pardons, the President has now granted a total of 212 pardons.
“Today, 209 commutation recipients – including 109 individuals who had believed they would live out their remaining days in prison – learned that they will be rejoining their families and loved ones, and 64 pardon recipients learned that their past convictions have been forgiven. These 273 individuals learned that our nation is a forgiving nation, where hard work and a commitment to rehabilitation can lead to a second chance, and where wrongs from the past will not deprive an individual of the opportunity to move forward. Today, 273 individuals – like President Obama’s 1,324 clemency recipients before them – learned that our President has found them deserving of a second chance.
“While the mercy the President has shown his 1,597 clemency recipients is remarkable, we must remember that clemency is an extraordinary remedy, granted only after the President has concluded that a particular individual has demonstrated a readiness to make use of his or her second chance. Only Congress can achieve the broader reforms needed to ensure over the long run that our criminal justice system operates more fairly and effectively in the service of public safety.”
