ATLANTA (AP) — A vote on whether licensed gun owners can bring handguns onto college campuses is expected Friday as lawmakers confront a key deadline.
Legislative rules require bills to pass at least one chamber by a certain point in the session to remain alive for the year. Lawmakers set that deadline, called “crossover day,” at the 28th day of this year’s 40-day session.
There are ways around the deadline, but lawmakers try to pass as many bills as possible.
Here’s a look at some of the top issues expected to come up Friday:
GUNS ON CAMPUS
There’s little doubt that the GOP-controlled House will approve legislation allowing licensed gun owners to have concealed handguns on public college campuses. The chamber easily passed the measure in 2016, followed by the Senate.
Republican Gov. Nathan Deal vetoed last year’s bill, shocking some in the party and hasn’t taken a stance so far on this year’s version. The University System of Georgia has opposed any change to Georgia’s existing ban of concealed weapons on campus.
The measure would allow anyone 21 and older with a state-issued permit to carry a concealed handgun on campus. People could not carry guns in student housing or athletic venues.
Rep. Mandi Ballinger of Canton is sponsoring this year’s proposal and added a new exception for preschools located on campuses. Deal listed that among his concerns with the bill last year, but also said he’d like to see campuses given a say over whether guns are permitted in faculty or administrative offices or buildings used for disciplinary hearings.

        
    
Georgia is among 17 states that ban concealed weapons on campus.
TESTING FOR LEAD
As other parts of the country wrestle with lead problems in drinking water, Georgia senators want to get ahead of the issue.
A bill scheduled for a vote Friday will require all schools to test their water for lead by the middle of 2019.
The concern lies mainly with old drinking fountains that the bill’s sponsor says can have lead in the welding that bleeds into the water.
DRIVER’S LICENSES
So far, the House hasn’t planned a vote on a bill to add “ineligible voter” labels to driver’s licenses issued to immigrants with permission to be in the country. Rep. Alan Powell, R-Hartwell, said he thinks the state’s existing “limited-term” label is vague and should clearly state that people with those licenses can’t vote.
The chamber’s Rules Committee, which determines whether bills get a floor vote, plans to meet early Friday and could add more items.
State election officials have repeatedly said no illegal votes have been cast in Georgia. The secretary of state’s office has investigated four instances of “attempts to register as noncitizens or alleged noncitizen voting” since 2014.
EYE INJECTIONS
Georgia senators plan to vote on whether optometrists, who are not medical doctors, can perform injections around the eye.
State law now requires that only ophthalmologists, who have at least four additional years of medical training, perform injections.
Under the proposal, optometrists would be required to have an additional 30 hours of training before performing injections, although recent graduates learn some of the skills in school, though some ophthalmologists think that training is insufficient.
