The second red "danger to life" weather alert in a week has expired in eastern parts of Scotland, amid torrential rain and high winds across the UK.
Forecasters had said another 70-100mm (4ins) of rain could fall on Saturday in parts of Angus and Aberdeenshire already hit by severe flooding.
Three severe flood warnings have also been issued in Derbyshire, which mean there is a significant risk to life.
Three people have died since Thursday, when Storm Babet first took hold.
Meanwhile, helicopters have been sent to assist a North Sea drilling platform which lost four of its eight anchors during the extreme weather.
The Scottish Environment Protection Agency (Sepa) has warned Saturday's rain will "prolong flooding impacts" and cause additional disruption.
Flood warnings for England are in place at Derby City Water Treatment Works, Little Chester, Eastgate and Cattle Market, and Racecourse Park at Chaddesden.
The Environment Agency said flooding from major rivers could continue until Tuesday.
Disruption on the rail network led to the closure of London's King's Cross station on Saturday afternoon after National Rail said it was "too crowded to be safe for all passengers".
London North Eastern Railway (LNER) said it was running "an extremely limited service" but trains could be "subject to short-notice cancellation".
The company, which operates services between Scotland and London on the east coast main line, said parts of its network have been impacted by flooding.
There are no trains at all running north of Edinburgh. Due to road closures, no bus replacement services are being provided.
Disruption to trains across Scotland is expected until the end of Sunday, National Rail said.
People across Scotland remain in temporary accommodation due to floods. 
The red weather warning expired at 17:00. The Met Office previously had the warning in place until midnight.
Amber and yellow warnings for rain and wind cover much of eastern Scotland, while a yellow wind warning is in place for north-east England.
Network Rail also warned some routes in England will also be impacted over the weekend - including the Midland Main Line from Sheffield to London.
Greater Anglia services are also affected, due to flooding in the Stowmarket area, and there is also "widespread" disruption across the Midlands.
The Environment Agency is monitoring Ladybower reservoir in Derbyshire, which is close to capacity after heavy rainfall. An overspill could cause flooding along the River Derwent.
Clive Stanbrook, area manager at Derbyshire Fire & Rescue Service, told BBC Breakfast 100 people - including 20 care home residents - had to be rescued on Friday.
Meanwhile, the sporting calendar was also affected with football matches postponed in Scotland and horse racing called off at Stratford-on-Avon and Market Rasen in Lincolnshire.
Angus Council - which was hit by the first red alert on Thursday - said it was prepared to call on the military for assistance if the situation in the region worsened significantly.
Brechin in Angus has been among the worst hit areas, with 60 households having to be rescued after they chose to remain in their homes despite an evacuation warning for the entire town.
Motorists across Scotland have been warned to exercise caution by police, amid an ongoing search for a driver who was reported to be trapped in a vehicle near Marykirk in Aberdeenshire in the early hours of Friday. 
On Saturday evening, some residents in the Aberdeen suburb of Peterculter were advised to leave their homes "as a precaution" in case of flooding.
Aberdeen City Council said a rest centre was available at Culter Village Hall.
Red is the most severe of the Met Office's three coloured weather warnings. 
It means that dangerous weather is expected and, if you have not already done so, you should take action now to keep yourself and others safe from the impact of the severe weather. 
It is very likely that there will be a risk to life, with substantial disruption to travel, energy supplies and possibly widespread damage to property and infrastructure. 
You should avoid travelling, where possible, and follow the advice of the emergency services and local authorities.
You can read more about the weather warning system here.
Are you in a region affected by the storm? Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways:
