Suffolk could remain the home of a major energy project that would see a subsea cable connect the UK to Belgium. National Grid previously announced the Nautilus project that would also see a substation at Friston in East Suffolk.However following opposition due to the number of energy projects already taking place in the county, it was proposed the plans should be moved to the Isle of Grain in Kent.Energy regulator Ofgem has now said it did not approve of the proposal due to constraint costs which Suffolk County Council has criticised.
"Unlike at Grain, there is capacity in the electricity system at Friston," National Grid said. "This means that the cost of connecting Nautilus at Friston is lower, as there are fewer reinforcements and upgrades needed to transmit the energy between Nautilus and the wider electricity grid."According to National Grid, Nautilus could connect up to 1.7 gigawatts (GW) of offshore wind to each country through the subsea electricity cables.If approved it could power 1.4 million homes in the UK. It added by combining offshore wind generation with the interconnector capacity between the UK and Belgium, the project would "significantly reduce the amount of infrastructure and disruption required both onshore and offshore".
Richard Rout, deputy cabinet member for nationally significant infrastructure projects at Suffolk County Council, said it felt "like the same old story"."Suffolk is yet again bracing itself for the impact of another large energy project," he explained. "It feels like the same old story, with cost-savings prioritised over the harmful effects on our communities and environment.“The council has always supported the need for the country to ensure energy security."But we’re now seeing layer upon layer of uncoordinated energy projects impacting Suffolk, irreversibly damaging communities, their heritage and environment. It’s relentless and it is unfair."Mr Rout added that if Nautilus was approved in Suffolk, the Sea Link project that would see a new, primarily offshore cable link between Suffolk and Kent, would need to be "reshaped to coordinate with it". He said he also feared for the mental wellbeing of those in the county "who must face the prospect of new infrastructure". A consultation by Ofgem into the Nautilus project is ongoing until 15 August. National Grid said it anticipated having clarity on the project's future in the Autumn.
Follow Suffolk news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
