I can remember Hurricane Beulah as if it were just yesterday. At the time I was a young mother of two girls, ages 2 and 4, and my husband was employed by Southwestern Bell Telephone. He did take the day the storm hit off but then worked 12 to 14 hour days seven days a week for over a month.
We had shopped and thought we were well prepared to weather the storm. We had purchased several kinds of canned goods we thought we could eat without heating. After the electricity went off we discovered one large problem. The only can opener we had was our electric one that, of course, was now useless.
I think the first couple of days we survived on cold cereal until the milk ran out and was useless anyway since there was no refrigeration. I think on the second day my mother managed to get a manual can opener to me. What a relief.
Our house was on the corner of 16th and Gardenia streets in McAllen. The yard was at least three feet above the street so when I looked out the front door and saw water half way to the front door I got a little excited. We were very lucky that was as far as it came and we had no damage to our house.
The worst problem we had was the plague of 1-inch-square toads that came out of the drainage ditch. You couldn’t avoid them and the street actually got slick from dead toads. Then came the hordes of mosquitoes. We learned to love the sound of the large four-engine planes flying low overhead that rattled all the windows, because we knew that the bugs would be gone for a little while. I can’t remember how many times they sprayed but I know it was more than once.
I still have the front page and cut out stories from the first edition of The Monitor when power was restored. The dateline on the top shows that it was for three days. We were without power for 3 1/2 days. I also remember that when the power did return, the first thing we saw on the TV was Larry James saying there was another hurricane out in the Gulf and we should keep watching. Thank goodness that it didn’t hit us; we certainly didn’t need any more rain.
I will forever remember that storm and often wonder why it is rarely mentioned when the Weather Channel recaps hurricanes on some of their programs. It was a huge problem for the Valley.
Beth Miller
Alamo
