DALLAS (AP) — Roope Hintz scored for the second game in a row after no goals in his first 11 games, Anton Khudobin stopped 31 shots and the Dallas Stars got their first win in regulation this season, 5-2 over the Philadelphia Flyers on Saturday night. 
Hintz also had the primary assist when Joe Pavelski scored a power-play goal in the third period to put Dallas ahead 4-1. It was the sixth game in a row that the Stars scored on the power play, and the first time they’d done that since February 2020. 
Luke Glendening also had a goal and an assist for Dallas (5-6-2), which had previously won three games in overtime and another in a shootout. Tyler Seguin also had a goal before Radek Faksa’s empty-net tally late. 
“We got a lot of good efforts on all four lines,” Stars coach Rick Bowness said, adding the defense was balanced and that the biggest difference on offense was just pucks going in the net. “The chances were there. They were consistent, and they went in tonight.”
The Stars were coming off a 4-2 home loss to Nashville on Wednesday night, and there was a player-only meeting after that stretch with one win in seven games. 
“We have simplify a few things. We weren’t going through a good patch by any means,” Pavelski said. “And you know, this is a good way to start getting out of it a little bit.”
Khudobin withstood a barrage of 19 shots in the first period by the Flyers, who were playing their second road game in as many nights. He didn’t allow any of those past him. 

        
    
The Flyers didn’t score until James Van Riemsdyk was credited with a goal while on his chest on the ice to the right of Khudobin with 3:24 left in the second period. Van Riemsdyk poked his stick at the puck that was pinballing between Stars players and it slipped into the net to get Philadelphia within 2-1. 
“That first period for me, I mean, what a way to come out tonight, on back-to-back nights with the energy and the plays that we were making,” Flyers coach Alain Vigneault said. “You know, if we capitalized, our energy level goes up, our confidence goes up. So it’s unfortunate. But that’s the way hockey is sometimes.” 
Vigneault said the Flyers had “some Grade-A looks” early. Then when they did score, they turned it over on the next shift. 
The Stars needed only 26 seconds to restore their two-goal lead when Seguin scored his fifth goal of the season. Jacob Peterson took the shot for the Stars, which went off a defender and then off Seguin’s blade into the net for a 3-1 lead.
Flyers goalie Martin Jones stopped 25 of 29 shots in his first loss of the season. He had been 3-0 with a 1.88 goals against average and .950 save percentage in his first three starts. 
Ivan Provorov scored his first goal of the season for the Flyers, on a power play in the third period. They had failed to score on 13 consecutive chances with an extra man, with none the previous three games.
NOTES: Kevin Hayes and Ryan Ellis each had an assist in their returns to the lineup for Philadelphia. Hayes played for the first time this season, and said he felt good with the puck even he still has to get back into game shape. “The speed was a little fast,” he said. “Haven’t played a game for months.” Ellis hadn’t been out that long. He had missed nine games since Oct. 2 after playing in the first three games this season. ... Dallas is 6-0-1 in its last seven homes games against Philadelphia. 
Flyers: Hosts Calgary on Tuesday night.
Stars: Host Detroit on Tuesday night.
More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
