Independent business owners in a small town are rallying together to fight incoming parking charges that could "ruin" the town. From October, Midsomer Norton is scrapping the current free parking on its High Street to introduce parking fees that depend on the emissions the vehicle puts out.Sean Duddon owns an antiques shop in Midsomer Norton and has started a campaign with traders in the town to stop the new parking charges."A lot of people feel that it is going to ruin our town," he told BBC Radio Somerset.
He added: "I do feel the charges will discriminate [against] people, possibly disabled or people who work in health care, they won't have anywhere to park."Sally Tealls, the owner of a baby and children business in Midsomer Norton, said: "We have 130 people that come to baby classes throughout the week. "Most of those are new parents who might struggle to go out with their newborns for the first time. It just adds extra stress to our community."Midsomer Norton is a town but had a village feeling. "We've grown but I would like to keep that feeling, and I think this is just going to make us feel like we're a larger city where we're not connected."
Councillor Shaun Hughes, an independent councillor for Midsomer Norton for Bath and North East Somerset Council said: "This is typical of a very Bath-centric council. They have no understanding of what this will do to our high street economy."The reality is that both Bath and Keynsham have had millions of pounds spent to improve their footfall. By comparison we've had nothing in Midsomer Norton."We live in an area of high car-dependency because we are semi-rural. Bus services have been cut dramatically."
Councillor Manda Rigby, cabinet member for Transport, said: "Our aim is to improve air quality, reduce congestion and encourage other ways to travel. "Introducing charging in Midsomer Norton and Radstock would make it easier for shoppers to find parking by encouraging turnover of spaces, and the additional revenue would support regeneration schemes designed to increase footfall and support local trade. "Where our proposals retain long stay parking, including in Midsomer Norton, we will provide season tickets so that motorists who regularly park for long periods can continue to do so for a lower cost compared to those paying each day. "We will shortly be consulting with residents on the wider roll out of proposed emission-based charges across Bath and North East Somerset.”
Follow BBC Somerset on Facebook and, X. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
