A police inspector who groped two girls has been sacked after a panel found him guilty of gross misconduct. 
Craig Mattinson, 47, had denied claims he inappropriately touched the pair, then aged 14 and 17, between April 2003 and April 2005.
On Thursday, the panel said it accepted the victims' accounts, describing the officer's actions as "unprofessional, sexual and inappropriate".   
His behaviour "seriously undermined" the public's trust, the panel said.
Calling for Mr Mattinson's dismissal, Olivia Checa-Dover, presenting the case, said: "The panel would struggle to find a topic of greater public concern than the way police officers treat women and girls."
Giving the panel's conclusion, legally-qualified chair Eileen Herlihy said both complainants  - known as Miss A and Miss B - were "vulnerable" and the officer had "abused trust".
It was clear to the panel, said Ms Herlihy, that "sexual gratification" had been Mr Mattinson's primary motive.
The complainants were sharing a flat in Hull at the time of the misconduct, the four-day hearing in Goole was told.
The panel said it accepted Mr Mattinson, who had risen up the ranks of Humberside Police since joining in 1997, had visited the flat - both on and off duty - and fondled both over their clothes.
He also kissed the older complainant, taking her to his home where he gave her alcohol, the panel also accepted.
Miss B told the hearing Mr Mattinson was "touchy-feely" and "persistent". She recalled the officer putting his tongue "down the back of my throat".  
Mr Mattinson asserted he had only visited the property on police business and improper behaviour "never happened".
However, Ms Herlihy said the panel noted "consistencies" between the complainants' accounts, adding they could see no motive for false testimonies.
During the proceedings, it emerged Mr Mattinson had two previous marks against his name.
In 2001, he admitted sending a message to a 15-year-old girl, which prompted a complaint from her mother. For this, Mr Mattinson was given a superintendent's warning.
And in 2003 he admitted having sex with a burglary victim, prompting "management advice".
Ms Checa-Dover had put it to Mr Mattinson that by 2004 he had twice breached standards expected of an officer. Mr Mattison agreed he had.
Despite this, it emerged he had twice been promoted - to sergeant in 2007 and then to inspector in 2012. 
After the hearing, a Humberside Police spokesman said while a high level of standards was always expected of its officers, the culture was very different 20 years ago. 
The spokesman stressed that this explanation "does not make it right or acceptable" and gave an "absolute assurance" Mr Mattinson's previous misdemeanours would not result in the same outcomes today.
Det Supt Andrew Maultby, the force's head of professional standards, said: "I do not underestimate the damage Mattinson's actions will have caused, not only to the vulnerable girls at the time and to their lives, but to the communities we serve who need to feel they can trust and have confidence in the police." 
He praised the two women whose "courage in speaking out has enabled us to ensure he has been removed from our police force". 
Mr Mattinson is now on the College of Policing barred list and unable to work for any other force in the country.
Follow BBC East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
