A former retail worker has spoken out about abuse staff face everyday amid fears that assaults and thefts in a city centre are "out of control".Gloucester City Council has pledged to work to understand the severity of the issue and take increased action to tackle retail crime and protect workers. It comes as shop workers in the city say they feel demoralised and in danger at work. Labour group leader, Terry Pullen, said: "Something is broken"
According to a recent report from the Co-op group, more than 330,000 incidents of retail crime were recorded in 2023 - a 44% increase on the previous year. Councillors backed a motion by Labour to look at securing more resources to tackle the issue and working to make assaulting retail staff a specific criminal offence. 
Councillor Andy Lewis, who used to work at Tesco in Quedgeley, told a council meeting he has seen his fair share of "nasty people". "Now somebody on the tills has to wear a body cam because they are in danger nearly every single day."He added that some employees as young as 16 are being threatened whilst working. “We never used to have it years ago... It’s shocking," he added. 
Labour group leader, Terry Pullen, said he and MP Alex McIntyre visited three shops in April with the then shadow minister, Alex Davies-Jones, to see the problems faced by retail workers. They witnessed numerous thefts and a manager being abused and assaulted by a customer who refused to pay for goods, the Local Democracy Reporting Service said. The incident was reported to the police, but no officers attended to investigate. Instead, the manager was contacted several days later to say the force would report it as a crime. 
Councillors voted to approve a motion which calls on the council to write to the Police and Crime Commissioner to ask for a review of arrangements for tackling retail crime by frequent and repeat offenders. They want to ensure and encourage retail workers to report incidents, including abuse and threatening behaviour, in the confidence that police will take action. They also want to work with retailers to reduce opportunities, likelihood and ease of shoplifting.Efforts to strengthen protection for shop workers including ensuring new criminal offence of assaulting workers is enforced. The council will also write to MP Alex McIntyre to use his membership of the House of Commons to achieve this. 
Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
