Kings and queens, presidents, prime ministers, celebrities and friends from across the globe were among the 2,000 guests at the Queen's funeral service at Westminster Abbey.
Here's who was in the abbey, and where they were seated.
Closest to the Queen's coffin were her four children and their spouses. King Charles III and his wife Camilla, the Queen Consort, sat alongside the Princess Royal and her husband, the Duke of York and the Earl and Countess of Wessex. 
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex sat directly behind the King while the Prince and Princess of Wales sat across the aisle from them. 
All of the Queen's eight grandchildren sat in the front two rows, days after they stood together in vigil at the lying-in-state. Prince George, nine, and Princess Charlotte, seven, were the Queen's only great-grandchildren to attend the service.
Prince Andrew's ex-wife the Duchess of York was in the second row next to her daughter Princess Eugenie. 
She sat next to the Queen's nephew, the Earl of Snowdon. The earl, David Armstrong-Jones, is the son of the Queen's late sister, Princess Margaret and the photographer Antony Armstrong-Jones. 
His sister Lady Sarah Chatto, who was close to the Queen, was also at the service with her husband Daniel Chatto and her two sons.
Other members of the Queen's family sat in the first few rows included her cousins, the Duke of Kent and Prince Michael of Kent.
Some of the Queen's god children were also there including Princess Diana's brother, Earl Spencer. 
Close friends also attended. Ladies-in-waiting Lady Susan Hussey and Dame Mary Morrison, were seen arriving alongside Angela Kelly, the Queen's personal dresser and one of her closest confidents.
The Queen Consort's children were invited - Laura Lopes, second from left, and Tom Parker Bowles.
Current Prime Minister Liz Truss and her husband Hugh O'Leary were alongside other cabinet ministers. All of the UK's surviving former prime ministers were also seated in the quire of the abbey.  
In the middle row was Carrie Johnson, Boris Johnson, Philip May, Theresa May, David Cameron, and Samantha Cameron.
In the front row were Sarah Brown, Gordon Brown, Cherie Blair, Sir Tony Blair, Lady Norma Major and Sir John Major.
All monarchs were invited to the funeral and the vast majority flew to London for it.
Denmark's Queen Margrethe II - now the only female monarch in the world - sat opposite King Charles close to the coffin.
Other kings and queens from The Netherlands, Sweden, Spain, Norway and Belgium also attended - as did the Grand Duke and Duchess of Luxembourg.
It also marked the first international visit for the Emperor and Empress of Japan since they ascended the throne three years ago.
Malaysia's King Sultan Abdullah Sultan Ahmad Shah and Queen Tunku Azizah Aminah Maimunah Iskandariah were seated behind King Abdullah II and Queen Rania of Jordan.
About 100 presidents and heads of government were thought to have been in the abbey. 
US President Joe Biden and his wife Jill were sat in the 14th row behind the Polish president Andrzej Duda and his wife Agata Kornhauser-Duda.
The president of France, Emmanuel Macron, was with his wife Brigitte. Mr Macron, who met the Queen three times, had said that she had been "a friend of France, a kind-hearted queen, who has left a lasting impression on her country and her century".
Other heads of government who were there included Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Israeli President Isaac Herzog and New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern.
Representatives from Syria, Venezuela and Afghanistan were not invited. This is because the UK does not have full diplomatic relations with these countries.
No-one from Russia, Belarus and Myanmar was invited either.
Diplomatic relations between the UK and Russia have all but collapsed since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and a spokesperson for Russian President Vladimir Putin said he was "not considering" attending the funeral. 
The invasion was launched partially from the territory of Belarus. And the UK has significantly scaled back its diplomatic presence in Myanmar since a military coup last year.
North Korea (DPRK) and Nicaragua were invited to send only ambassadors, not heads of state. 
Human rights groups had criticised the decision to invite Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman. The prince has been accused by Western intelligence of ordering the killing of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi in 2018. Prince Turki Bin Mohammed al Saud attended the funeral instead.
Graphics by Mark Bryson, additional reporting by Daniel Rosney and the Visual Journalism team 
