Con artists are scamming grieving people into paying to watch fake livestreams of funeral services, a celebrant has warned.Craig Richardson, 40, from Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, has been officiating at funerals for more than 18 years.In recent weeks, he has seen a rising number of his clients targeted by scammers who send them fraudulent links. Suffolk Trading Standards advised anyone contacted unexpectedly about a livestream to speak to the family of the deceased, the funeral directors or the funeral venue.
Mr Richardson said the scammers initially charged £15 but, once paid, he fears they may then clone the mourners’ card details and potentially drain their bank accounts.He said at least one elderly woman he knew nearly fell victim to the scam, but her family and bank came to her rescue at the last minute."It is already the worst time of someone’s life," he said."They are trying to say goodbye to a loved one and then to be scammed in such a way is quite disrespectful."It is disgusting because they [the scammers] are preying on the vulnerable. They don’t have a heart."
He said he believed fraudsters were using public records to find the details of the newly bereaved."Once they’ve found a family member who opens up, they set up a fake profile,” he said."They then invite family members and friends of the deceased and get them to click on a link to a fake site, which looks very genuine and extremely professional."They are very crafty because they have actual pictures of the deceased and all the details of the funeral."
The latest scam comes after the BBC spoke to 63-year-old Eileen from Felixstowe, who was conned out of £200 by a fraudster posing as Hollywood star Kevin Costner.Mr Richardson offered advice to anyone in Suffolk who received a link purporting to be a livestream of a funeral."Check with the funeral directors, because they are the only people who will be issuing a link to a livestream directly to the bereaved family," he said."There will never be any money asked for to watch a service because the livestream is always already paid for by the family."
James Crossland, managing director of Obitus, an official provider of funeral streaming services: said: "We’re aware there have been cases reported of bereaved families targeted with fake funeral ‘stream’ scams on social media."It's deplorable scammers are trying to take advantage of people at such a vulnerable time.“We would never ask mourners to enter credit card details or personal information to access a genuine stream."So always make sure it’s genuine - and never give out personal details to access a link. If in doubt, check with the official funeral director."
Rob Lilley-Jones, consumer expert from Which?, described this type of scam as “particularly horrific and awful”. "Fraudsters are increasingly targeting people at their most vulnerable and this is one of the most vulnerable times of anyone’s life, when a loved one has died. "This just shows how fraudsters are completely shameless."
A spokesperson for Suffolk Trading Standards said: "If a member of the public is contacted out of the blue offering a livestream of a funeral via social media for a fee, then Trading Standards advice is not to pay.“Often these profiles have been set up recently or have limited information on who they are."If you are unsure, then speak to relatives of the deceased, to the funeral directors, or contact the crematorium to find out if they are aware of the person in question.”
Follow Suffolk news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
