Police have confirmed they have had complaints about noise at the Download rock festival.
The annual event at Donington Park, Leicestershire, features big names in rock and heavy metal music. 
One resident eight miles (13km away) said: "Is someone living out their rock and roll dreams on the back garden?"
Derbyshire Police said it had taken "a number" of calls but that these problems were the remit of North West Leicestershire District Council.
The venue for the four-day festival is close to the border of both counties.
Miriam Barber, 35, posted on Spotted: Kirk Hallam Facebook page, said: "Is it Download you can hear around Kirk Hallam this evening, or is it someone living out their rock and roll dreams on the back garden?"
One reply agreed, saying: "It's amazing, could actually hear Metallica singing."
Ms Barber,  who works at East Midlands Airport, close to the festival site, told the BBC her 20 minute journey home had taken nearly three hours due to severe traffic congestion caused by the festival.
When she did eventually get home she could hear music from the event so loudly, she thought it was coming from one of her neighbour's houses.
"It was just surprising because I've never heard it from home before," she said.
"We had the windows closed and you could hear quite clearly what was being played."
People also reported heating the music nearly 15 miles (24km) away in Heage, 12 miles (19km) away in Hilton and 10 miles (16km) away in Mackworth.
A post on the Spotted Long Eaton Facebook page said: "This is ridiculous, DOWNLOAD festival is 6 miles away and the thudding is unreal and still a working day tomorrow."
But responses to this were mostly unsympathetic, with one saying: "Imagine living close by to a race track and an airport but crying into your cereal about a bit of music."
However, those complaining were given little sympathy on Twitter.
Councillor Michael Wyatt, from North West Leicestershire District Council, said: "Although noise limits are in place, we expect some people who live nearby to be able to hear noise from the event.
"We will continue to work with the event organisers to monitor sound levels at key times during the event and will actively respond where excessive sound levels are recorded."
Event organisers Festival Republic have declined to comment.
Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook, on Twitter, or on Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk.
