Tourism leaders in Devon and Cornwall have said they are "hoping for a bounce back" after reports some accommodation providers are facing vacancies in the usually busy month of August.Malcolm Bell of Visit Cornwall said he hoped people would now start "looking and booking" after a quiet start to the holiday season "mainly on the weather".  Sally Everton of Visit Devon said August was looking "relatively quiet" but she was "hopeful for a bounce back and some good weather would really help".The government said the tourism industry was a "key part of what makes Britain so great" and it was committed to supporting the sector.
It follows warnings in June tourism in the South West was at its "lowest point for 10 years", according to the South West Business Council. Mark Marriott, 56, has three holiday cottages on his farm near Pyworthy in Devon, and said bookings were down.He said: "We're hoping there is going to be a feel-good factor after the election and that the cost of living crisis will become a thing of the past." He is also concerned possible changes to business rates by the new government would increase costs for tourism businesses.
Ayr Hoiliday Park above Porthmeor beach in St Ives has about 50 holiday caravans and 100 touring pitches. Owner Andrew Baragwanath agreed "business is pretty slow", and believes a cut in the rate of VAT for tourism businesses would "help us compete with Europe, and also enable us to invest more".
In west Cornwall, Nicky Monies runs the Moomaid of Zennor ice cream company, and said "it's definitely quieter".The family business makes more than 200,000 litres of ice cream every year at their farm, selling it locally through four ice cream parlours. "People don’t have the spending power they did," Mr Monies said.He added he was also concerned about the impact of potential changes to employment rights by the new government. "Everybody wants the best for their staff, but so long as any changes don't become a burden for businesses themselves, because we are all feeling the pinch from the cost of living crisis," he said.
The Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) said the government wanted to continue to attract tourists and "drive regional growth" in the UK. It said the government was committed to the introduction of a registration scheme for short-term lets and planned changes to the business rates system would be set out in due course.However, it said there were no plans to reintroduce a reduced rate of VAT for the tourism sector.A DCMS spokesperson said: "Our tourism sector is a key part of what makes Britain so great."It showcases the best our country has to offer to the rest of the world, while employing millions of people, boosting the economy and creating pride in the places we live."We are committed to supporting the industry to be the best it has ever been so that it can continue to attract visitors, drive regional growth and benefit businesses and communities."
Follow BBC Devon on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk.
