The death of the director of one of the world's most famous circuses has been described as a "massive loss" to "the entire entertainment industry".Phillip Gandey ran Gandeys Circus with his wife Carol and their family from a base near Congleton, Cheshire. The circus is one of the biggest touring shows in Europe and Gandey World Class Productions employs hundreds of people, putting on displays by a range of international performers, including Chinese State Circus.Mr Gandey has been remembered by industry peers as one of Britain’s greatest showmen. He was 67.
He took over the running of his family business at the age of 17 following the death of his father.He also used to performed in shows himself as Starri the Clown.Andrew Van Buren, who runs Philip Astley Projects in Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire, said his family and the Gandeys had a close friendship spanning generations.“It’s a massive loss to not only the circus industry but also the entire entertainment industry, with Phillip being such a creative,” he said.
In 1999, Mr Gandey made history when he took the first ever circus to Saudi Arabia. His company now has shows across the Middle East and Asia.John Exton, vice president of the Circus Friends Association, said Mr Gandey had been a showman from a young age.He said Gandey had inherited his father’s showmanship and built the family business into an internationally renowned operation.
Gandeys Circus set up a base in south Cheshire after Phillip Gandey’s grandfather broke down in Brereton on his way home from a theatre tour, and ended up being stuck for three weeks waiting for his vehicle to be repaired.He and his wife loved the area so much they decided to rent a cottage and the family business was located in the area ever since.
Mr Exton said the combination of Mr Gandey's showmanship and his wife’s business acumen helped the business go from strength to strength.He added: “He was one of the most genuine showmen I have ever met. He would always make time for you.“He was a very humble man, very polite and always welcoming. He was an absolute credit to the circus and British entertainment business.“My friendship with him goes back over 50 years, it means a lot to me and I will miss it greatly.”
Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, X, and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
