The parents of a "caring, considerate and compassionate" student who took her own life say they want young people to feel better able to talk about suicide.
Mary O'Gara was three months into a nursing course at the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) in Preston when she took her own life in May 2020.
The 27-year-old had suffered from long-term depression, her family said.
Sharon and Paul O'Gara say they hope to "start conversations" between students about mental health issues.
The suicide prevention charity Papyrus estimates at least 200 children a year take their own lives in the UK.
To mark World Mental Health Day, Mr and Mrs O'Gara have worked with UCLan to arrange empty chairs - one for each lost child - outside the university.
They have also set up the Mary O'Gara Foundation, which provides and funds suicide prevention training to education and community institutions working with young people across Lancashire.
Mr O'Gara said: "When we lost Mary the impact it had on us as a family was immense.
"If doing what we are doing can prevent one person from taking that same path, as far as I'm concerned, that's a massive victory."
Mrs O'Gara explained: "We've taken the suicide prevention training ourselves as a family and in hindsight now, there are signs. Some are very subtle. 
"Could we have helped Mary? Potentially yes. It is vital people are suicide aware and there were signs."
UCLan head of student support and wellbeing services Megan Blissett said: "Our hope, and the O'Garas' hope, is that students stop and look at the chairs, stop and talk to us.
"At UCLan we have a dedicated team of highly trained and experienced practitioners in mental health and wellbeing support."
She also said training was on offer for students, and that nobody was immune to poor mental health. 
"This could happen to any of us at any time," she said.
"Don't be afraid to have a conversation about suicide."
Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook, X and Instagram? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
