Since the start of the year 15 pubs in Cumbria have closed, new figures have revealed.The Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA) said 13 closures were "long term", with two leading to the building being demolished or converted. Its research showed 28 pubs in the county closed in 2023, with concerns more will call last orders during the coming months. Tom Stainer, chief executive of CAMRA, said the industry had faced several challenges including issues around tax and a change in consumer behaviour.
He also said planning laws had made it easier for pubs to be converted into different buildings.However, he was pleased the new government had set out steps to reform business rates and make it easier for communities to buy pubs.
Amanda Picken, landlady of Carlisle's oldest pub The Sportsman Inn, said they were managing to keep their "heads above water", but were struggling to keep customers due to the rising price of pints. "I absolutely love this pub," she told BBC Radio Cumbria."It's got a very special place in a lot of people's hearts." 
One publican bucking the trend is Joe Harrison.He opened the West Wall Brewing Co in Carlisle in June, but said starting a new business during a cost of living crisis came with "a lot of doubts". "There's a lot of doom and gloom in the press about hospitality and the high street, so it was quite difficult at times," he said.But "bringing something completely new to Carlisle" keeps him going. 
The government has promised to make community purchases of pubs easier.Labour also promised to overhaul the business rates system as part of its manifesto, but has not specified what will replace the current system.Simon Walker, chair of the Miners Arms Community Pub group which is raising funds to buy the Miners Arms in the village of Nenthead, added: "The government is very keen on community assets, particularly community pubs."We do hope they will see these as priorities."
Follow BBC Cumbria on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk.
