A 49-year-old man, who killed a cyclist when his van hit her, has been found guilty of causing death by dangerous driving.Rebecca Comins, 52, died after she was “thrown into the air” when struck by the van driven by Vasile Barbu in June 2022.Barbu, from Abergavenny, Monmouthshire, was driving on the A40 near Raglan on 2 June 2022 when the crash happened. Mother-of-two Ms Comins, described by her family as "incredibly kind and an inspiration to so many", was a triathlete who was taking part in an organised time trial road race when she died of “blunt chest injuries”, Cardiff Crown Court heard. 
There were signs to alert drivers of the presence of cyclists, good visibility and each cyclist had a bright red rear light fitted, jury members had heard during the trial. One witness, who was driving on the road, said that he had moved into the centre lane to avoid the cyclists and saw the van driven by Barbu in his rear view mirror, He said the van remained in the same lane and struck Ms Comins, from Caldicot, Monmouthshire, resulting in her being thrown into the air and landing by a hedge.Another cyclist, who was a few places behind Ms Comins, said that he felt “buzzed” by the van driven by Barbu as it passed close to him.
In a statement, the family of Ms Comins said: “Beckie was a wonderful wife to Stephen and mum to George and Millie who will be dearly missed.“Beckie was incredibly kind and an inspiration to so many. Her impact on the lives of people throughout the local and sporting community has become especially evident by the abundance of tributes and memories shared since her death.“She loved her family, friends and sport and was always the first person to offer help and advice.“We are so proud of what she achieved in her life."They added: “Our lives changed forever when we lost Beckie. The verdict will never bring Beckie back.“No words can describe our pain knowing we will never see her laugh and smile again. We miss her so much and she will forever be in our hearts."
Barbu, who passed an alcohol and drugs test, told police he heard a "knock" and pulled over because he thought the parcels in his van were moving. He said he had seen a cyclist but could not explain how he hit her.Judge Shomon Khan told Barbu: “Prison is almost inevitable."The judge granted bail until sentencing on 5 July.Barbu must surrender his passport and report regularly to a police station. He has also been banned from driving.
