Billings resident Kenneth George Kramer admitted on Tuesday that he was a meth dealer in a large, Fishtail-based trafficking ring that brought about 178 pounds of the drug to the community from Arizona.
Kramer, 60, pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Billings to conspiracy to possess meth for distribution as part of a plea deal. More serious drug charges initially charged are to be dismissed at sentencing if the judge approves the agreement.
The plea agreement also calls for a sentence in the range of three years to five years. A jury trial set for Monday was canceled when Kramer decided to plead guilty.
U.S. District Judge Susan Watters set sentencing for Aug. 30. Kramer remains in custody.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Colin Rubich said Kramer was “an active participant” in a drug ring led by Fishtail resident Merrill Clark Gardner, who bought pounds of meth from a supplier, Juan Carlos Dorado, of Tucson, from about 2012 until October 2015.
Gardner used couriers, including Brett Wade Clouse of Absarokee, to make drug runs and money deliveries to Dorado and to deliver meth to local distributors, including Kramer. Gardner regularly distributed pound level quantities to Kramer, Rubich said.
Acting as Gardner’s driver, Clouse drove Gardner to Kramer’s home where the three men would smoke meth in Kramer’s basement and then Kramer would pay Gardner money he owed. The three would count the money together and each time it was at least $6,000, Rubich said.

        
    
Investigators also identified one of Kramer’s customers, who had met Kramer through construction work and bought meth at least four times from Kramer. Each purchase was for about three ounces of meth, Rubich said.
Gardner was sentenced to more than 15 years last year for his conviction in the case that involved about 178 pounds of meth, while Clouse was sentenced to a little more than five years. Dorado is awaiting sentencing after pleading guilty to trafficking charges earlier in April. At least four other people have been charged or convicted in the case.
