PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Jimmy Vesey scored early in the third period and the New York Rangers beat the Philadelphia Flyers 6-3 Saturday night for their sixth straight win.
Artemi Panarin, Barclay Goodrow and K’Andre Miller each had a goal and an assist, Jacob Trouba and Ryan Lindgren had empty-net goals and Mika Zibanejad had two assists for the Rangers, who are 7-1-1 in their last nine. Jaroslav Halak had 29 saves to improve to 2-6-1.
 “I thought we played real good the first 25-30 minutes of that game,’’ New York coach Gerard Gallant said. “Then we got a little bit sloppy at times. Overall, we played pretty good hockey and it was all four lines. All the D were involved and obviously we had good goaltending. It was a good effort from our group again tonight.’’
James van Riemsdyk, Scott Laughton and Morgan Frost scored for the struggling Flyers, who have lost 17 of their last 20 (3-12-5). Carter Hart finished with 29 saves.
Flyers coach John Tortorella was satisfied with the effort, similar to the one his team gave in a 1-0 overtime loss at Madison Square Garden on Nov. 1.
“I thought we had good energy tonight,’’ Tortorella said. “I thought we started off well. It was a game that could have gone either way. ... I think our guys work hard. We make mistakes. But the effort level and the energy, I really don’t worry about that.’’
Vesey, who had two goals in the Rangers’ 3-1 win at home against Toronto on Thursday night, scored at 6:22 of the third period to give New York a 4-2 lead. It was his sixth of the season and fourth in the last nine games.

        
    
Frost scored just 31 seconds later with his fifth to pull the Flyers back within one.
However, Trouba had short-handed empty-netter with 2:08 to play and Lindgren added another with 48 seconds remaining to seal New York’s latest win that hasp put a slow start to the season in the past.
“I think we figured out what we have to do,’’ Zibanejad said. “Just got to keep going. We all know and understand in here what we have to do to be successful. That’s been making us successful over these last few games. We’ve just got to keep doing that.’’
Miller and Goodrow scored 3:05 apart midway through the second period to give the Rangers a 3-1 lead. 
Miller connected at 9:09 as he jumped out of the box after serving a penalty, outraced Philadelphia defenseman Travis Sanheim to an uncontested puck at center ice and then put a shot past Hart for his second of the season and a 2-1 lead.
Goodrow made it a two-goal advantage with 7:36 left as he converted from close range for his seventh.
Laughton made up for the miscue by scoring a short-handed goal with 2:04 left in the middle period to pull the Flyers to 3-2. Panarin attempted an ill-advised pass near the blue line, setting Laughton clear for a solo rush and a deke move past Halak for his sixth.
The Flyers took a 1-0 lead with a goal from van Riemsdyk at 7:11 of the first period, gathering the puck at the far post and beating Halek short side for his fifth. It was just the ninth time in 32 games the Flyers scored the first goal of a game.
Panarin tied it with 3:02 left in the first as New York took advantage of an odd-man rush with his seventh.
The Flyers placed forward Lukas Sedlak on waivers for the purpose of allowing him to return to his native country, Czech Republic — a move which essentially ends his NHL career. Sedlak, claimed off waivers from Colorado in October, played in 27 games for Philadelphia, recording three goals and five assists. ... Philadelphia leading scorer — and former Ranger — Kevin Hayes was a healthy scratch. ... Kieffer Bellows was called up from Lehigh Valley of the AHL and Patrick Brown returned from from an upper-body injury. 
Rangers: At Chicago on Sunday night in the second of a three-game trip.
Flyers: Host Columbus on Tuesday night to wrap up a two-game homestand.
AP NHL: www.apnews.com/hub/NHL and www.twitter.com/AP_Sports
