Primark has apologised after one of its employees was told she could not wear an Irish language Christmas jumper.
The young woman, who works in Primark's Belfast store, had been wearing a jumper that said "Nollaig shona" - the Irish for "Happy Christmas".
She was reportedly called into an office and told some people could be offended by the Irish words.
Primark has since said sorry over the incident.
The company, which was founded in the Republic of Ireland in 1969, added that "no policy exists which prohibits the use of the Irish language on colleague clothing".
"We are really sorry that this incident took place, this was an isolated event that should not have happened, and we are taking steps to provide further guidance to our colleagues on our workwear policy," it said.
The story was first reported by the Irish News, which said the young woman involved did not wish to be named.
She works part-time at Primark's flagship Northern Ireland store on Belfast's Royal Avenue.
It reported that the young employee was called into a manager's office last Friday to have a chat about a "sensitive subject".
In the meeting she was told some people might be offended by the Irish language on clothing, the paper claimed. 
It also alleged that she was told it would be acceptable to wear clothing featuring the Spanish language, but not Irish.
The shop worker was then reportedly ordered to report to Primark's personnel and communications departments over the issue.
Primark told BBC News NI that no-one from the firm was available for interview on Thursday.
However, its spokeswoman confirmed the company has not received any complaints from employees or customers about Irish language clothing.
In addition to the firm's apology, the statement said: "We support an inclusive workplace where everyone should feel welcome at work."
Primark currently operates more than 400 stores in 16 countries around the world but the firm has strong Irish roots. 
It was founded by the late Arthur Ryan who opened his first clothing store in his native Dublin in 1969, operating under the name Penneys.
The firm expanded into to England in 1974 and the UK is now its largest market.
It has 37 stores in the Republic of Ireland, all of which still operate under the original Irish brand name Penneys.
Its Belfast store was almost destroyed by a major fire in August 2018.
The historic city centre building was rebuilt and reopened to shoppers in November 2022.
