Giving teenagers the HPV vaccine is cutting cases of cervical cancer by 90%, figures for England show. Scientists say it works so well that this type of cancer could be eradicated in the near future. The study shows the vaccine is most effective when offered to Year 8 students - those aged 12 to 13.The vaccine also provides protection against genital warts by preventing human papillomavirus (HPV) infections.
Gem Sofianos, 36 and from London, found out that she had cervical cancer in 2015 after attending cervical screening. HPV vaccines were not available when she was a teen.She said: “If I had been offered the vaccine when I was younger, I wouldn’t have hesitated to take it up. My younger sister was given the HPV vaccine in the first rollout at school. It gives me comfort knowing that she and others are protected against HPV, and therefore less likely to develop cervical cancer.”Gem was treated early and is now cancer-free but she still attends regular screening.“I still suffer from the aftermath of my diagnosis, and I hope one day we live in a world where cervical cancer is eliminated," she said. The study, funded by Cancer Research UK and led by experts at Queen Mary University of London, shows the HPV vaccine combined with cervical screening can dramatically reduce cervical cancer incidence to the point where almost no-one develops it.More cases were prevented in the most deprived socio-economic groups in society - those often hit hardest by the disease. Researchers said this was great news. Prof Peter Sasieni, lead author of the work that is published in the British Medical Journal, said: "Our research highlights the power of HPV vaccination to benefit people across all social groups."Historically, cervical cancer has had greater health inequalities than almost any other cancer and there was concern that HPV vaccination may not reach those at greatest risk. "This study captures the huge success of the school-based vaccination programme in helping to close these gaps and reach people from even the most deprived communities."Minister for Health, Maria Caulfield said: "I urge all those eligible to get in touch with their GP to get the vaccine if they haven’t had it yet."
HPV is a sexually transmitted infection and is responsible for almost all cases of cervical cancer - the fourth most common cause of cancer in women worldwide.The vaccination programme started in 2008 with girls offered the vaccine. Now all teenagers are offered it and anyone who missed their vaccine can request it through the NHS up to the age of 25.Source: NHS
