A council has been told it is failing children across the board. Halton Borough Council's children's services department has been rated "inadequate" in all four areas of its inspection by watchdog Ofsted. An independent government inspector will be brought in after inspectors found the service had "significantly deteriorated" since the last full inspection in 2020. Halton chief executive Stephen Young apologised and said the council had let down young people. The latest report, which has downgraded the department from "requires improvement" to "inadequate", highlighted a lack of "stable and effective leadership".  
The report also said there was no continuous improvement planning. Following their visit on May 13 and 14, inspectors said the council had not tackled "serious deficits" in the way the service provided for children who needed help and protection. The report said there were "serious and widespread weaknesses across the service". It said: "Risk of harm is not always identified, and when it is, the response for many children is not sufficiently robust. "Drift and delay permeate services for children in need of help and protection and for children in care.“This is the result of too many changes of social worker, ineffective supervision and a lack of management direction. "Too many children live in situations of neglect for too long."The council said it is now in discussions with the Department for Education around the timing and involvement of a commissioner, who will work alongside the council’s senior management team and an independently chaired improvement board.Former boss Milorad Vasic left the role in March 2023 after more than six years at the helm. He was replaced by Zoe Fearon last October. She had been director of children’s social care at Salford City Council since 2019 but before that, worked at Halton Council for 20 years, including as head of service for children in need/child protection.The Ofsted report said: "The newly appointed permanent director of children’s services and leadership team now have a solid understanding of many service weaknesses. "Staff and partners are starting to be re-engaged. "Plans and strategies to tackle the deficits are either in their infancy or have yet to be actioned. While there are some early signs of progress, it is too soon to see the impact for children and young people."Halton boss Mr Young said: "Accepting the failures of the past, we are now determined to continue to move forward."
Listen to the best of BBC Radio Merseyside on Sounds and follow BBC Merseyside on Facebook, X, and Instagram. You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
