Calls are being made for Southern Water not to award bonuses to senior executives this year. Campaigners and swimmers said the money should be invested in reducing sewage discharges into the sea.It follows other water company bosses around the country deciding not to take their bonuses.Southern Water said any bonuses will be linked to environmental and performance targets.
Becca Horn, an all-year swimmer from the Clean Water Action Group in Hastings, said money needs to go into updating infrastructure."We’ve been to the sewage treatment centre which services Hastings, St Leonards and Bexhill," she said."We’ve seen that they’re regularly over capacity and they’re in dire need of maintenance."She believes forgoing management bonuses would be a popular move.“The public are so angry," she said. "It’s a good gesture to show they are concerned and that they care."Southern Water was fined a record £90m for deliberately dumping billions of litres of raw sewage into the sea in 2021.Executives at Thames, Yorkshire and South West Water have already announced they will not be taking their bonuses because of poor performances.
Robin Carter moved to St Mary's Bay near Dymchurch, Kent, five years ago, and used to enjoy a daily swim. But said this is no longer possible because of the poor quality of the water.He said: "There’s a few of us who used to go swimming in the mornings, no matter what the weather, but now we’re told if we go in there we might get infections."They shouldn’t be paid a bonus. They’re not doing their job. This should be sorted out."
A Southern Water spokesperson said: “We’re investing significant money and resources, building bigger infrastructure, using innovative technology and natural solutions.“In our CEO’s first year of leading this vital work, if any bonus payments are paid, they will be linked to clear environmental, customer service and performance targets, with detailed information available in our annual report.”
Follow BBC South East on Facebook, on Twitter, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk.
