A man who harvests an invasive species of crayfish thinks eating them could prevent damage to rivers. Andrew Leech catches North American signal crayfish from the River Kennet in Thatcham.But a law change by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) means he can no longer sell live crayfish. Now he wants to educate people on the benefits of eating crayfish to help manage the population and protect UK rivers. 
Mr Leech runs Kennet Crayfish Company and empties up to 150 traps of crayfish from the River Kennet every day. He said: "There is a market, they taste absolutely fantastic. They look pretty pre-historic, but they do taste good, that's why they were introduced in the first place."
The species, which are like a miniature lobster, was originally brought to the UK 50 years ago to be farmed for European markets. When they were released in the wild, the population soared - which is slowly destroying river life.Charlotte Hitchmough from Action for the River Kennet explained: "They have a massive damaging impact, because they burrow into the banks and that causes erosion. "The course fish lay their eggs in the summer and the crayfish just march into those nests and eat every egg and if they run out of food, they just start eating each other. "They're in too many places already and we definitely don't want them any further." 
Mr Leech, who has been in the business of catching and selling crayfish for more than 20 years, said it is a form of "pest control", but the licensing changes by DEFRA mean selling in bulk is harder. His warehouse in Thatcham was built for the Swedish and exporting market and previously saw up to four tonnes of crayfish sold each week. With the law stopping the sale of live crayfish, Mr Leech has invested £250,000 in processing and packaging systems to sell part-cooked and fully cooked crayfish instead. He said: "A lot of our sales at the moment are to foreign people living in the UK. If it's not in batter, people over here, tend not to try it. "We'll probably have to get back to exporting, unless we can get people in this country to try them. Everybody who does try them raves about them, but this is where we've got to educate."
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X (Twitter), or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2240.
