The Labour government set out more details about its plans to change the House of Lords, during the King's Speech.
A new bill will phase out the remaining hereditary peers, whose presence in the Lords is described as "outdated and indefensible".
Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer previously said he would abolish the parliamentary chamber in its present form altogether. 
The House of Lords is part of the UK Parliament. 
Also known as the Upper Chamber, it is independent from the House of Commons - where 650 Members of Parliament (MPs) debate and vote on new laws.
Members of the Lords are called "peers". Like MPs, they scrutinise the work of government and recommend changes to proposed legislation.
Unlike MPs, however, peers are not elected. 
While many peers have worked in politics - including some former MPs - others are experts in areas such as science or the arts.
Most peers stay in the Lords for life - although some choose to retire.
The post of House of Lords Speaker was established in 2006. Lord McFall was elected for a five-year term in 2021. 
The Lord Speaker chairs daily business in the chamber from his seat on the woolsack and, like the House of Commons Speaker, is expected to be politically impartial. 
The monarch delivers the King's Speech from the throne of the House of Lords as part of the state opening of Parliament.
One of the most senior officers in the House of Lords, Black Rod - currently Sarah Clarke - plays a key role in traditional ceremonies such as the state opening of Parliament and selection of the Commons Speaker. 
The House of Lords does not have a fixed number of seats, and its size fluctuates as members leave and join. 
As at 15 July 2024 there were 774 eligible peers, making the House of Lords the second largest parliamentary chamber in the world. Only China's National People's Congress is bigger. 
It comprises:
There are also 178 Crossbenchers - peers who are not affiliated to a particular party - and 25 bishops. 
In total, there are 546 male peers and 228 female peers. 
There are three main ways to become a peer:
As at 15 July 2024, there were 660 appointed life peers and 89 hereditary peers. All hereditary peers are male.
In 2016, a House of Lords committee was set up to consider ways of reducing the size of the chamber. It published a number of reports about possible reform. 
In June 2023, the House of Commons Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee launched another inquiry to consider the size of the House of Lords, how peers are appointed and their role and responsibilities. 
Most Lords are entitled to a £342 daily allowance for each sitting day they attend - although they can choose not to claim.
Some also receive a salary, including the Lord Speaker, who receives £106,363. 
Government ministers in the Lords are entitled to ministerial salary, which ranges from £66,884 to £106,363, although the actual amount claimed is slightly below these figures. 
Salaried peers cannot claim the daily allowance.
The Labour manifesto said House of Lords reform was "long overdue and essential" because the chamber has become too big, and "too many peers do not play a proper role in our democracy".
The government argues that there should not be places "reserved for individuals who were born into certain families, nor should there be seats effectively reserved only for men".
It says the House of Lords (Hereditary Peers) Bill will therefore remove hereditary peers' right to sit and vote in the chamber.
A separate bill will extend measures designed to boost the number of female bishops in the House of Lords which are due to expire in 2025.
However, another manifesto commitment, to introduce a mandatory retirement age for peers - meaning they would would have to stand down at the end of the Parliament following their 80th birthday - was not included. 
Labour had also said it wanted to make it easier for "disgraced peers" to be removed.
Party leader Sir Keir previously said he would abolish the "undemocratic" and "indefensible" chamber altogether, and replace it with a fully elected body.
Instead, the party's manifesto said the party will consult on replacing the Lords with a "more representative" alternative.
