A business owner has praised a series of concerts, featuring Avril Lavigne, Tom Jones, James and Nile Rodgers, saying they are "a great thing" for his town.  The acts, which also include Jess Glynne and Pete Tong, will grace the temporary stage at Bedford Park over six nights from 29 June to 7 July.Joseph Lionetti, who lives and works in the town, said the Bedford Summer Sessions show that "little old Bedford, isn't so little anymore"."I've loved Avril for 20 years, seeing her again by my back door is amazing," he added.
Mr Lionetti, 30, who runs La Piazza cafe on St Paul's Square, with his father Libby Lionetti, said he was due to see Lavigne in 2020, but the gig was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "It was rearranged and when I saw her, with my wife Emily, at Alexandra Palace last summer, she was pregnant with our daughter Isabella. "So now Isabella gets to see her twice, when she was in her stomach and now as a baby."With his father, Mr Lionetti, 58, they have been selling tickets for the concert from their cafe. "There's a real ripple effect, it means people will come and get a ticket from us, without a booking fee, who might not have come here before and then get a drink or something to eat", Mr Lionetti said.Both men will be at the gigs, as they will be volunteering for the Beds and Northants MS Therapy Centre, the event's charity partner. 
Bedford Borough Council, which owns the park, said it would bring "people from all over the country to visit our town". "The events help boost our local economy with local hotels, bars, restaurants, buses, taxis, and car parks all benefiting from the concerts."Funds from the hiring will go into the park's budget."These concerts, alongside the Bedford River Festival, put Bedford on the map as an event destination", it added.
Avril Lavigne, takes to the stage on 29 June, Jess Glynne on 30 June, Tom Jones on 4 July, Pete Tong Ibiza Classics is on 5 July, James Orchestral Performance is 6 July and the event finishes with Nile Rodgers & Chic on 7 July. 
Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
