Political leaders in the Welsh Parliament have called for peace in the Middle East in response to the events in Israel and Gaza.
First Minister Mark Drakeford said the events have a "real impact here in Wales in our own communities".
All party leaders condemned the attacks on civilians by Hamas.
But Plaid Cymru leader Rhun ap Iorwerth said the siege of Gaza cutting water and energy supplies was impossible to justify.
Welsh Conservative Andrew RT Davies meanwhile said Israel's right to protect its borders must be supported.
They spoke in the Welsh Parliament on Tuesday afternoon.
Mr Drakeford said the events playing out in Israel and in Gaza were "shocking and appalling".
"The impact of those events is not confined to the streets of Israel and Gaza. They have a real impact here in Wales in our own communities," he said.
"We condemn of course, the perpetrators of these attacks, which have taken the lives of so many innocent civilians but condemnation alone is not enough."
"Beyond the horror of the coming days, the international community must come together to work again, for a lasting peace."
"To see the activities of the terrorist organisation Hamas break through the border and murder women, children and old people in their homes and in their community settings, is something that we all deplore, and rightly so," Welsh Conservative Senedd leader Andrew RT Davies said.
"We must all support Israel's right of defence and making sure that its international borders are recognised and ultimately protected".
"We as a country, the United Kingdom and the international community and us here in Wales must redouble our efforts to bring peace to the communities that live in that part of the world."
He added that "we support the civilians in the Palestinian community who abhor what Hamas is doing, supposed, in their name".
Rhun ap Iorwerth, Plaid Cymru leader, said: "We have condemned the attacks by Hamas and today we urge the international community to work together swiftly to persuade the relevant powers to introduce a ceasefire to allow the release of those held in Gaza against their will.
"We also believe that the way that the Israeli government has placed Gaza under siege, ceasing water and energy supplies is impossible to justify.
"People on both sides of the border losing their lives again in heart-breaking circumstances. Worsening the violence is not the solution.
Welsh Liberal Democrat leader Jane Dodds added that she fully condemned the terrorism of Hamas and Islamic Jihad.
"I hope and pray that all efforts from everyone everywhere will concentrate on negotiations, peace, safety, and protection of all caught up in this horrendous conflict."
