PARIS (AP) — So much has changed for 
Elina Svitolina
, who played — and won — her first 
Grand Slam match
 in nearly 1 1/2 years on Monday at 
the French Open
, eliminating 2022 semifinalist 
Martina Trevisan
 6-2, 6-2.
For one thing, she’s now a mother: Svitolina and her husband, French tennis player Gael Monfils, welcomed their daughter, Skaï, in October. For another, Svitolina is now ranked 192nd, nowhere near the career high of No. 3 she first reached in 2017, back in the days when she was regularly reaching the second weeks of major tournaments — including a pair of semifinal runs. Away from the courts, her home country of Ukraine was invaded by Russia last year, and the war continues.
“Everything,” she said, “is kind of old and new for me right now.”
In sum, Svitolina is juggling a lot nowadays.
She hadn’t played at a Slam since a third-round exit at the Australian Open in January 2022. She hadn’t played a match anywhere since March 2022, when she was still ranked 20th.
“It was always in my head ... to come back, but I didn’t put any pressure on myself, because obviously with the war going on, with the pregnancy, you never know how complicated it will go,” the 28-year-old Svitolina said.
The work to return to the tour after giving birth began this January; her initial WTA match came at Charleston, South Carolina, in April. On Saturday, she won her first title since returning to action, at a smaller event on red clay in Strasbourg, France.

        
    
On Monday at Roland Garros, she used her big forehand to compile a 20-12 edge in winners and never faced a single break point against Trevisan, who was seeded 26th. 
Trevisan cried as she spoke after the match about a problem with her right foot that made it difficult to even walk and prompted her to stop playing during her quarterfinal last week at the Morocco Open, where she was the defending champion.
Still, she gave Svitolina credit.
“Even though she’s just coming back from having a daughter, she’s a champion,” Trevisan said. “And she’s coming off a title, so she’s confident.”
Svitolina talked about feeling “awful when you’re pregnant, especially the last months,” but getting into a position now where she thinks she’s stronger than before — in more ways than one.
“I feel that I can handle the work that I do off the court and, match by match, I’m getting better. Also mentally, because mental (state) can influence your physicality, as well,” she said. “I tried to find the balance, and I feel like I’m seeing (things) a little bit again differently as well after the break. Everything is getting there. The puzzles are getting slowly into place.”
AP Tennis: 
https://apnews.com/hub/tennis
 and 
https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
