A social worker who helped expose the Rotherham grooming scandal has welcomed plans to ban convicted sex offenders from changing their names to avoid detection. Jayne Senior spoke out after Safeguarding Minister Laura Farris confirmed the amendment would be included in the upcoming Criminal Justice Bill.She described the measure as a "great first step" but said more needed to be done to support victims, saying current legislation does not go "far enough". The Home Office said it was "paramount" victims were "fully protected".
Last year the BBC found that more than 700 registered offenders had slipped off the police radar, mainly because of an identity change. Among those to have exploited the loophole was Ian Huntley, whose previous offences went undetected at the Soham school he worked at before he killed Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman in 2002.     
Ms Senior, who is the chief executive of the Swinton Lock children's charity in Mexborough, said the government should have ended the practice "years ago". Speaking to BBC Radio Sheffield, she said: "It's a brilliant idea, but I also think, 'Why has it taken so long for us to get here?' "I don't think it goes far enough, but it's great that we've got to this stage and got where we are."
Ms Senior, who was awarded an MBE in 2016 for her work in Rotherham, said victims needed better communication from the Probation Service. Specifically, she raised the ordeal of victims who have bumped into their abuser in the supermarket, having had no idea they were living nearby after their release from prison. "There's a lot of areas that need to be looked at," she added. "This is a great start but there needs to be a complete overhaul of how we treat offenders when they're released. "Let's keep going and look at other areas that aren't watertight."Let's look at how victims services work with victims and what information they share."Rotherham MP Sarah Champion described banning sex offenders from changing their names as an "absolute no brainer". 
She told the BBC: "I was incredulous that something as simple as changing [your] name by deed poll meant you could disappear. "I can't tell you this is a panacea and it will never happen again, but I hope it sends out a chilling message to those paedophiles and abusers that are looking to use the current loophole because it's not going to be there anymore." In a statement, the Home Office said: "We have made sure that dangerous sex offenders cannot evade sanctions and criminal checks by changing their name and pose a further risk to the public."It is paramount victims of serious sexual and violent offences are fully protected. "They are eligible to be supported by a victims liaison officer, who can help them request specific licence conditions for offenders, including exclusion zones after they are released."Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly known as Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
