Missing pieces of a 6th Century Byzantine bucket have been uncovered at a site world-famous for its historical discoveries. A month-long excavation with archaeologists, conservators and volunteers from the television show Time Team has taken place at Sutton Hoo, in Suffolk. Fragments of the bucket were first discovered in 1986, with more found in 2012, the National Trust, which manages the site, said.Further pieces have now been found and experts believed the bucket had previously been damaged and repaired. 
The National Trust, about 80 volunteers from across the world, FAS Heritage and Time Team started excavations at the beginning of June. It was part of a two-year research project exploring the earlier history of Sutton Hoo, famous for the discovery of an Anglo Saxon burial ship in 1939 that has been described as one of the greatest archaeological discoveries of all time.
Angus Wainwright, regional archaeologist for the charity, said earlier surveys by Time Team identified some "mysterious anomalies" which led to the excavation of Garden Field."Because of its proximity to fragments discovered much earlier, we had hoped this year’s dig would yield more of the Bromeswell Bucket," he said."[It] originated from the Byzantine Empire in the 6th Century - around a hundred years before the ship and its extraordinary treasure was put to rest."
Using specialist technology, he said the group was able to confirm fragments already held in the collection were part of the same artefact. On closer inspection "we believe that the bucket had been previously damaged and then repaired" and some parts "soldered back together", he added.The entirety of Garden Field has been metal detected, with recovered items recorded in 3D.These will be sent away for processing and cataloguing before being returned to Sutton Hoo at a later date.
Tim Taylor, Time Team’s series producer and creator, said it had been "fantastic". "We’ve experimented with some new technology and perspectives, including the use of a live 360-camera and first person 'specs cam', which has really brought our fans closer to the action."Sutton Hoo is widely considered "England’s ‘Valley of the Kings’", he added.
Follow Suffolk news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
