Plans for an annual beer festival in York have been approved despite previous concerns about noise from residents. The Campaign for Real Ale (Camra) group were granted permission from the City of York Council on Monday to host the event and sell alcohol at St Lawrence Church, in Lawrence Street, in September.
Camra hosts the beer and cider festival in the city over one week every year.
Karl Smith, chair of Camra's York branch, said there had never been any "significant incidents" over the years.
It comes after some residents complained to the council about the festival disturbing nearby properties.
One resident said:  "The noise is unbearable, especially at night when I am trying to sleep.
"This festival should not be held on the church grounds as it is not appropriate, and while it is taking place I have no quality of life."
Another resident from the nearby Ellen Wilson Almshouses also shared concerns about noise as they said previous festivals had included a "tannoy system amplifying the sound of someone's voice and loud music playing late into the night". 
Addressing these concerns, Mr Smith said: "We're surprised and disappointed that a small number of residents have chosen to complain now."We try hard to be responsible and accommodating when possible and it might have been helpful if they complained to us at the time or shortly after the event rather than six months later."
The meeting on Monday also heard how North Yorkshire Police had withdrawn their previous objection to the license being granted after agreeing conditions with the organisers, including a documented staff training programme.
In addition to this, Camra were granted a licence to sell alcohol at the festival from midday until 23:00 from Wednesday 18 September to Saturday 21 September.
Mr Smith said Camra had measures in place if people drink too much, such as calling an ambulance.
"The odd customer does drink more than their limit, but we are used to handling these," he said. 
The meeting went on to hear how Camra had previously used bigger spaces for the festival, including the Knavesmire, but dwindling attendances meant smaller venues have been necessary.Mr Smith said: "As is the case in many Camra beer festivals, attendance has been declining since about 2017."We had a peak of about 10,000 customers over the four days back in those years."This meant that a large outfield festival became increasingly unviable."He added that two years off without the festival taking place during the Covid-19 pandemic also had "a lasting effect" on attendance.
Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
