Unwitting shoppers left footprints in a freshly repaired pavement after workers forgot to cordon off the wet tar.
Multiple shoeprints and, in one case, wheel tracks, appeared on the stretch of footpath in Haxby, North Yorkshire.
Lydia Harrison who only realised the surface had not set shortly after stepping out on to it from her car, said "small signs" were the only warning in place.
Haxby Town Council said contractors would come back to repair the damage.
More stories from around Yorkshire
The pockmarked pavement is on The Village, close to the town's Memorial Hall, where the council's offices are based.
Mrs Harrison, from nearby Huntington, said: "The thing with tar is that you can't tell if it's wet or dry.
"I don't understand why they would do this in a busy village such as Haxby. 
"They should have done it overnight with steamrollers rather than leaving it to dry."
Fellow local Elly Webb noted only "a few signs and some red and white tape" outside the Red Lion pub.
Her biggest concern was for people who would struggle to access homes and business along the street without stepping on the unset tar.
James Scott, who said Haxby Council had told him everything was "perfectly fine" accused the authority of being "in denial". 
"My shoes are absolutely ruined because they are now full of Tarmac," he said. 
He said the only sign was one at the entrance to the church, which read "footpath closed". 
Haxby and Wigginton Councillor Andrew Hollyer said it was "disappointing to see the damage", which he blamed on "inadequate pedestrian management". 
He said contractors would return on Sunday to repair the affected section "when more appropriate traffic and pedestrian management will also be put in place, including wardens to warn people for the remainder of the work".
He said other parts of the town where the pavements had been resurfaced without issue "looked excellent", and hoped that would soon be the case throughout.
Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
