Seasoned voters will be familiar with casting their ballots in traditional, if a little dull, locations such as primary schools or bare church halls.However, on 4 July some lucky voters will be marking an X in more unorthodox and quirky polling stations. Eligible voters in north-east England - armed, of course, with their photo IDs - could be choosing a government in venues ranging from swimming pools to cemetery offices.Here are some of the more exotic polling stations in the North East, according to the Local Democracy Reporting Service.
The mill and its tearooms are an election-fan favourite and the venue will yet again serve as a polling station.According to the Sunderland Information Point, this beautiful landmark is the only working windmill in north-east England. It was built back in 1808 from the magnesium limestone of local quarries and, following restorations during the 1970s and 1990s, now offers visitors a chance to take a step back in time at a functioning mill.
Eager voters in North Tyneside will have the pleasure of visiting Tynemouth Pool to exercise their democratic right.This usually serene venue made headlines in March 2022 when quick-witted firefighters freed a 12-year-old boy trapped in a gully at the side of the pool by cracking open a bottle of shampoo and shimmying him out.
No doubt some residents of Whitley Bay may be in for a bit of a shock or even be spooked at the prospect of casting their ballot at their local cemetery. The macabre venue was opened in 1960 but had a former life as a cemetery and chapel. It became Grade II listed in 2003.
The Guildhall is one of the most architecturally significant buildings in Newcastle and has been is Grade I listed since 1954. The Quayside landmark courted controversy in August 2019 when plans were discovered to convert part of the building into a Hard Rock Cafe.The scheme divided local opinion, with some branding the idea "ridiculous".
Shipley Art Gallery is home to one of the UK's most revered collections of ceramics, wood, metal, glass and textiles outside London. The gallery opened its doors for the first time in 1917 after 504 paintings were bequeathed to the institution by local lawyer Joseph Shipley.The gallery and Northumbria University now offer the Henry Rothschild Bursary for Ceramic Artists to five students starting out in their careers. The Shipley is managed by Tyne and Wear Archives and Museums for Gateshead Council.
Whether voting in the sumptuous surroundings of a listed building, making a gravely important choice at a crematorium or seeking political inspiration at an uninspiring eyesore, don't forget that ID.
Follow BBC North East on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk.
