Students from Lemm Elementary in the Klein Independent School District can now officially say they have completed a semester of high school.
It’s not exactly how it sounds though. The elementary students were displaced after Hurricane Harvey ruined their campus causing the site to need a complete restoration. The storm’s destruction will cost the district an estimate between $12-$15 million in repairs. The students, teachers, and staff had to be placed in a wing of the district’s newest high school, Klein Cain.
“In the transition we haven’t had any complaints from our students, and they love being in a high school. It’s interesting because our kids try and figure out how they can intermingle with the high school kids,” said Kathy Brown, Lemm Elementary principal. “The high school kids are also trying to find ways to engage with the elementary kids. We have had some time exciting opportunities to work with high school kids here. In a sad situation, it’s the best opportunities our kids have had as well.”
Lemm Elementary received around 6 to 8 inches of water throughout the school during Hurricane Harvey. Various degrees of damage from the storm impacted 25 other campuses in the district with minor damage from roof leaks and blowing water, the majority of this damage was to ceiling tile, but nothing was to the extent of the damage sustained at Lemm Elementary.
Contents that had to be removed from Lemm Elementary included casework, drywall and flooring material, furniture, damaged equipment, books and paper goods. The site has had to have drywall cut and carpet removal as well.

        
    
The high school, which now houses approximately 700 students and 70 staff members from Lemm Elementary, officially opened in August to freshman and sophomore students.
Klein Cain High School students serves approximately 1,450 freshman and sophomores combined and was built to house 3,500 students. The new high school had a wing that was not being used, so the campus was able to house the elementary students.
Students, teachers, and staff are utilizing about 36 classrooms in addition to various areas for special-needs students at their new temporary home.
Lemm Elementary opened in 1980 and is located at Joanleigh Drive, Spring. Klein Cain is located at 10201 Spring Cypress, Klein, which is at the opposite end of the district from the elementary school.
There have been some unforeseen obstacles Lemm students and staff have experienced during the transition with getting acclimated to their temporary site.
“Bussing has been a challenge; we went from four buses to 12 buses. We were at a neighborhood “school, and it is (now) going from one end of the district to another,” Brown said. “We were furthest school to the east, and now we are going all the way to the west. It is like going from Interstate 45 to Texas 249, and that’s been a struggle.”
Earlier in the semester, it was reported that the initial budget for the restoration was $8.5 million, but the district was waiting to hear back from its insurance company - it had flood insurance - and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Now, the estimation of repairs could cost up to $15 million.
School officials confirm that funds to restore the school will come from the 2015 bond program and some already were earmarked for Lemm Elementary. The rest of the funding will come from the district deferring other work at other schools.
“We have just completed the re-design of the interior spaces,” Robert Robertson said, Klein ISD associate superintendent of facility and school services. “We are now engaged in conversations with Harris County and Harris County Flood Control as to what additional code requirements or flood control requirements we will have to make during this reconstruction.”
The new design will increase transparency, flexibility, and collaboration spaces with the interior of the school. Also, day lighting will be added, which means including some sky lights. The new design is aimed at bringing the school up to the latest instructional standards.
“It’s important to know you can take an established building, remove all the walls from a 37-year-old building and make it innovative and accessible for the 21st century learner to be successful,” Brown said. “Literally, we gutted the building and what we have ready is going to allow for innovation and positive learning for our students. We are not just re-doing the building for my lifetime, but for way into the future for these kids. It’s so exciting to see.”
Even though Klein Cain High School is only a temporary home for Lemm Elementary, there have been various collaborative opportunities between the elementary and high school students. This semester high school child development classes invited the younger kids to the nutrition lab to make ginger bread houses, the softball girls team has participated in mentoring elementary girls, and the culinary group invited fifth graders to work with them in the lab.
Other collaborative opportunities have included high school student volunteers at the elementary’ s field day, a genius hour every week with students from child development with kindergarten teachers, autistic children earned Fun Fridays to engage and participate with high school students, and some science high school students taught elementary kids about flooding.
“It’s great for the kids to see what a high school looks like and see careers and things that they might want to do in the future. It’s (also) great for the kids to see that they can advance what they’re doing in their learning here,” Brown said. “The learning will continue and students will be coming every day. It’s a wonderful experience. Out of all the bad, we can counter with all of these wonderful things that are happening.”
Klein ISD plans to re-open Lemm Elementary in August for the 2018-19 academic school year.
