The sentencing Tuesday of a former Michigan State University head gymnastics coach Kathie Klages to 90 days in jail for lying to police during an investigation into ex-Olympic and university doctor Larry Nassar is the latest development from the sexual assault scandal.
 
Nassar
 was convicted on charges related to his serial molestation of young women and girls under the guise of medical treatment.
Numerous people have been charged, fired or forced out of their jobs during the investigations into the once-renowned sports doctor. He was sentenced to decades in prison after hundreds of girls and women said he molested them, including while he worked for Michigan State and Indiana-based USA Gymnastics, which trains Olympians.
A look at some of the individuals and organizations affected:
— The U.S. Education Department 
 fined
 Michigan State University $4.5 million in September for failing to respond to sexual assault complaints against Nassar. The same day, MSU President Samuel Stanley Jr. announced the resignation of Provost June Youatt, saying the investigation findings showed she and former President Lou Anna Simon “failed to take appropriate action on behalf of the university to address reports of inappropriate behavior and conduct.”
— Lou Anna Simon: The university president and school alumna 
resigned
 in January 2018 amid growing pressure. She denied any cover-up by the university. She was later charged with two felonies and two misdemeanors, charges a judge 
dropped
 in May. She had been accused of lying during an interview when investigators were trying to determine how Nassar got away with sexual assault for so long.
The MSU governing board 
 later hired 
 former Michigan Gov. John Engler. He 
 resigned
 amid fallout from remarks he made about some of Nassar’s victims. In May 2019, MSU named 
Dr. Samuel Stanley Jr
., a medical researcher who had led Stony Brook University in New York for nearly a decade, as its president.

        
    
MSU has settled 
 lawsuits
 totaling $500 million.
— Mark Hollis: The athletic director called his 
departure
 in 2018 a retirement, but he, too, had faced pressure to leave.
— Kathie Klages: The former head gymnastics coach resigned in 2017 after she was suspended for defending Nassar over the years. Klages was 
charged
 with lying to investigators. She was 
convicted
 in February and 
sentenced
 Tuesday to 90 days in jail. 
— Brooke Lemmen: The former school doctor 
resigned
 in 2017 after learning the university was considering firing her because she didn’t disclose that USA Gymnastics was investigating Nassar. A state investigation 
cleared
 her of any violations in 2018.
— William Strampel: The former dean of the university’s College of Osteopathic Medicine was 
 charged
 in March 2018 amid allegations that he failed to keep Nassar in line, groped female students and stored nude student selfies on his campus computer. Strampel retired as Michigan State was trying to fire him. He was 
found guilty
 in June 2019 of neglect of duty. He was 
 sentenced
 in August 2019 to a year in jail.
— Bob Noto: The university in February 2018 announced the 
departure
 of its longtime vice president for legal affairs.
— The university agreed in August to 
resolve
 a federal civil-rights investigation related to Nassar.
— Rhonda Faehn: The former senior vice president of the organization was 
dismissed
 in January 2019 by the University of Michigan after working for just a few days as a coaching consultant for its women’s team. She was fired after an outcry over her hiring.
— Valeri Liukin: The coordinator of the women’s national team for USA Gymnastics announced in February 2018 that he was 
stepping down.
— USA Gymnastics said in January 2018 that its entire board of directors would 
 resign
, as requested by the U.S. Olympic Committee. The USOC then took steps to 
 decertify
 the gymnastics organization that picks U.S. national teams, and USA Gymnastics filed a Chapter 11 
bankruptcy petition.
— Steve Penny: The former president and CEO of the organization 
resigned
 under pressure in March 2017. He was replaced by Kerry Perry. Penny has pleaded 
not guilty 
 to a third-degree felony alleging he ordered the removal of documents relating to Nassar from the Karolyi Ranch in Texas.
— Less than a year after being hired as USA Gymnastics’ president and CEO, Perry 
resigned
 in September 2018 after the USOC questioned her ability to lead the scandal-rocked organization.
— Former California U.S. Rep. Mary Bono was 
 hired
 in October 2018 as the interim president for USA Gymnastics only to 
resign
 four days later. Bono said she felt her affiliation with the embattled organization would be a “liability” after a social media post by Bono criticizing Nike and former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick drew widespread scrutiny.
— Ron Galimore: The longtime USA Gymnastics chief operating officer 
 resigned
 in November 2018 but denied any wrongdoing. The Indianapolis Star reported earlier that an attorney hired by USA Gymnastics directed Galimore to come up with a false excuse to explain Nassar’s absence at major gymnastic events in the summer of 2015.
— Li Li Leung in March became 
USA Gymnastics president
 and CEO.
— John Geddert: The owner of the Michigan club was 
suspended
 in 2018 by USA Gymnastics and announced his retirement. He was the U.S. women’s coach at the 2012 Olympics. Geddert has said he had “zero knowledge” of Nassar’s crimes.
— USA Gymnastics said in January 2018 that the 
Texas ranch
 where a number of gymnasts said Nassar abused them would no longer serve as the national training center. Owners Martha and Bela Karolyi have since sued the USOC and USA Gymnastics, . They also have been named in 
lawsuits
.
— Scott Blackmun: The CEO 
resigned
 in February 2018, citing difficulties with prostate cancer and the federation’s need to move forward to deal with the sexual abuse scandal.
— Alan Ashley: The USOC 
fired 
 the chief of sport performance in December 2018 in the wake of an independent report that said neither he nor Blackmun elevated concerns about the Nassar allegations when they were first reported to them.
Check out AP’s 
complete coverage
 of Larry Nassar and the fallout from his years of sexually abusing girls and women.
