PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Keith Yandle tied the NHL record for consecutive games played with 964 and the Philadelphia Flyers tied a franchise record with their 12th straight winless game, losing 3-1 to the Dallas Stars on Monday night.
Jacob Peterson scored the go-ahead goal with 3:25 left and Joe Pavelski added an empty-netter to seal the win.
The Flyers have lost all 12 games over that span, matching a mark for futility set during the 1998-99 season when they lost eight games and tied four over a 12-game stretch. There are no ties to save them from this indignity.
The Flyers can hit their all-time worst streak — and Yandle can take his spot in history — on the road Tuesday against the New York Islanders. 
DENVER (AP) — Nazem Kadri and Mikko Rantanen scored, Pavel Francouz made 23 saves for his third career shutout and Colorado blanked Chicago to extend its franchise-record home winning streak to 16 games.
It was the seventh straight victory overall for the Avalanche, who tied the 1976 Boston Bruins for the fifth-longest home winning streak in NHL history.
Colorado hosts Boston on Wednesday to close a three-game homestand.
The Avalanche improved to 3-0 against the Blackhawks this season. They meet one more time Friday in Chicago. 
NEW YORK (AP) — Adam Fox scored the deciding goal in the sixth round of a shootout and New York beat Los Angeles for its ninth win in 12 games.

        
    
Chris Kreider got his NHL-leading 30th goal, Barclay Goodrow also scored and Artemi Panarin had two assists as New York won its fifth straight at home. Igor Shesterkin stopped 34 shots to pick up his 20th win of the season.
Blake Lizotte and Alex Iafallo scored in the second period for Los Angeles. Jonathan Quick stopped 28 shots as the Kings lost for the fourth time in five games. 
Los Angeles’ Anze Kopitar and Panarin scored in the third round of the tiebreaker, and Kings rookie Quinton Byfield and New York’s Alexis Lafreniere converted in the fifth round. After Shesterkin denied Arthur Kaliyev in the sixth round, Fox roofed a slick backhand that stuck in the net to win it.
WASHINGTON (AP) — Robin Lehner made 34 saves for his first shutout of the season, backstopping Vegas to a victory over Washington. 
Making his sixth consecutive start, Lehner recorded his first shutout since April 16 and the 17th of his NHL career. The Capitals were shut out for the first time this season in their 43rd game.
Michael Amadio scored the Golden Knights’ only goal, and they won a second consecutive game after losing their previous three. 
The Capitals lost for the seventh time in their past 10 games. Vitek Vanecek allowed only Amadio’s goal on 29 shots, and the power play was not able to cash in on several opportunities.
BOSTON (AP) — Troy Terry scored his team-leading 23rd goal, Ryan Getzlaf had a goal and set up another, and Anaheim cooled off Boston.
Isac Lundestrom, Derek Grant and Greg Pateryn also scored for the Ducks, who won for the fourth time in 11 games. John Gibson made 23 saves and Hampus Lindholm had three assists.
David Pastrnak scored his 20th goal for Boston, with 12 coming in 13 games this month. Taylor Hall added a power-play goal and Erik Haula scored late for the Bruins, who had gone 10-2 since New Year’s Day.
Boston netminder Tuukka Rask struggled, stopping 22 shots. 
ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) — Connor Dewar got his first career goal and added an assist when Nico Sturm scored 22 seconds later, helping Minnesota match its franchise record for goals.
Jared Spurgeon, Marcus Foligno, Mats Zuccarello, Matt Boldy, Jordie Benn and Kevin Fiala also scored as Minnesota dominated NHL-worst Montreal to ease Cam Talbot’s return to the net after an injury.
Mike Hoffman gave the Canadiens the lead by slamming a pass to the slot past Talbot’s glove just 1:23 into the game, but Spurgeon tied it less than two minutes later.
Talbot made 14 saves in two periods for his first win since Dec. 9. Kaapo Kahkonen, who went 5-0-1 during Talbot’s absence, took over for the third period and gave up a goal to former teammate Rem Pitlick.
CALGARY, Alberta (AP) — Matthew Tkachuk had a career-high five assists, Johnny Gaudreau had a goal and three assists, and Calgary routed St. Louis. 
Tkachuk ended a four-game goal-scoring streak but was happy to spread the wealth. Four of his assists came in the second period, when Calgary outshot St. Louis 18-2. Tkachuk has 17 points (four goals, 13 assists) in 13 career games against his hometown team.
Nikita Zadorov, Chris Tanev, Elias Lindholm, Sean Monahan, Blake Coleman and Adam Ruzicka also scored for Calgary (19-12-6), which won for just the second time in seven games. Jacob Markstrom made 20 saves.
Tyler Bozak scored for St. Louis (25-12-5), which had won six of its previous seven. Jordan Binnington stopped 28 of 35 shots before being replaced by Ville Husso to start the third. Husso stopped all 13 shots he faced.
More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
