FATULLAH, Bangladesh (AP) — Ajinkya Rahane just missed becoming the third century-maker in the first innings as India cruised to 462-6 against Bangladesh on the rain-affected third day of their test on Friday.
Showers stalled the middle session three times, tea was taken 30 minutes early, and the drizzle wiped out the last session. India adopted an aggressive approach to increase its run rate and give it a total against which it can bowl out Bangladesh twice.
“I am sure they will try to take a chance (to win) because they have scored enough runs and they don’t have anything to lose,” Bangladesh allrounder Shakib Al Hasan said.
“At the same time, we have to score runs. We have to bat well in six sessions. It’s difficult to talk about the mindset of our team at the moment. But one thing is for sure, when we go to bat, we will try to bat for as long as possible.”
India scored 239-0 in 56 overs on the first day, the second was washed out, and it added 223-6 in 47.3 overs on Friday. All but one of the wickets was lost while trying to go for the boundary.
“We can push for a win, weather permitting,” India opener Murali Vijay said. “That’s our attitude and that’s our mindset.
“The wicket is deteriorating, and it’s going to help (offspinners Harbhajan Singh and Ravichandran Ashwin).”
Rahane was last man out for 98, attempting to pull Shakib but missing and losing his off stump. Rahane hit 14 boundaries in 103 deliveries.

        
    
That was offspinner Shakib’s fourth wicket, after he took out Shikhar Dhawan on 173 and fellow opener Vijay on 150.
Dhawan and Vijay combined for 283, India’s biggest ever partnership against Bangladesh.
Dhawan, on 150 for two nights, added 23 more before he rushed at Shakib and ended up giving the bowler a simple caught and bowled for his 100th wicket on home soil in his 28th home test.
Dhawan’s 195-ball knock included 23 fours. His third century was only his second highest, after making 187 in his maiden test innings against Australia in 2013.
Shakib then hit the off stump of Rohit Sharma (6), who looked for an expensive drive through cover.
Legspinner Jubair Hossain dismissed captain Virat Kohli (14) with a googly, leaving India on 310-3.
Vijay, the snail to Dhawan’s hare, was Shakib’s third wicket, out leg before to an attempted sweep. Vijay, on 89 for two nights, reached his sixth century with his 10th boundary. He moved on to 150 in 272 balls before Shakib struck.
Wriddhiman Saha was bowled by Hossain for 6, and Shakib nabbed Rahane for the third wicket in the session.
Left at the crease were Harbhajan (7), back for his first test in more than two years, and Ashwin (2).
