A man who has been diagnosed with terminal bowel cancer has said there were "zero symptoms". Mark Butcher, from Westbury, Wiltshire, is dedicating his last months to supporting other patients and raising awareness that the condition can affect anyone - no matter what age they are.His friends are also embarking on a 15-hour workout challenge this month to raise money for St Peter's Hospice and Bowel Cancer UK. "There’s so many patients - even much younger than me - that are diagnosed and dealing with bowel cancer. I really want to support them," the 45-year-old said. 
Mr Butcher was diagnosed with the condition "completely out of the blue" in November 2021. He started experiencing "sudden abdominal pains", which was initially thought to be appendicitis. But a scan revealed that Mr Butcher's bowel was "completely blocked" by a cancerous tumour. Last June, he underwent a gruelling 15-hour operation to treat the disease. 
Surgeons then discovered the cancer had spread to his liver. In a bid to treat the condition, doctors performed cytoreductive surgery followed by heated chemotherapy - which is dubbed "the Mother of All Surgeries" by medical professionals. 
It involves an incision from the sternum down to the pelvis, where medics physically remove all cancerous cells. Chemotherapy is then heated up, and the liquid is poured into the body, with the aim of wiping out any remaining cells. The 15-hour procedure is highly invasive and risky, and involves a "big recovery" afterwards. “I’ve always tried to be true to my values," Mr Butcher said.  "What I’ve said to my daughter and my wife is at the end I want to be able to look them in the eye and know that I’ve done everything physically possible.“It’s given me at least another year which is all good."
His best friend, David Champion, is organising the fundraiser at Kokoro Fitness in Bristol on 22 June, with all the money going towards St Peter's Hospice and Bowel Cancer UK. "Mark didn’t take a break during his operation, so we’re going to try and keep moving that whole time," Mr Champion said. They also want to highlight the "amazing work" of St Peter's Hospice, which is already supporting Mr Butcher and his family. So far, they have raised more than £5,000 for the charities. 
On the day of the fundraiser, Mr Champion will be joined by about 12 others who are committing to the full 15 hours, from 04:00 BST to 19:00. Throughout the day, others will join for shorter periods. “Everyone wanted to do something," he said. "You feel helpless in these situations and Mark has been such an inspiration."During the final hours, Mr Butcher and his family will be there to support the participants. His 14-year-old daughter also hopes to take part.
“It will be emotional and bittersweet," Mr Butcher said. "There will be numerous tears shed and lots of happy memories."He said the amount of "messages, love and support" has been "overwhelming". "There’s people I probably haven’t interacted with in 30-plus years who are sending money and messages of support," he added."It makes me realise how much of an impact we have unconsciously on other people’s lives."It shows what lifelong friendship actually means - when you need that love and support, it’s there."
Follow BBC Bristol on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
