WASHINGTON (AP) — The Republican chairman of a special U.S. House of Representatives committee investigating the deadly 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya, promised Tuesday to “ratchet up” an inquiry he said is being hobbled by resistance from the Obama administration.
Rep. Trey Gowdy, said the committee has recently received 15,000 pages of new documents, but needs greater cooperation from the State Department and other agencies to do its job.
“Letters haven’t worked. Southern politeness hasn’t worked. We’re going to ratchet it up,” Gowdy said at the end of a two-hour hearing that at times turned into a partisan grudge match.
The Sept. 11, 2012, attack on a U.S. post in Benghazi killed U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens, foreign service officer Sean Smith, and two CIA contractors, Tyrone S. Woods and Glen Doherty. A Libyan extremist, Ahmed Abu Khatalla, is facing trial on murder charges after he was captured in Libya and taken to the U.S.
In the aftermath of the attack, Republicans criticized the Obama administration and its then-secretary of state, Hillary Rodham Clinton. Some Republicans argue that the military held back assets that could have saved lives and that Obama and Clinton lied to the public about the nature of the attack.
Democrats deride the continued interest in Benghazi as a right-wing effort to keep talk of scandal fresh and harm a potential Clinton bid for the presidency in 2016 despite numerous investigations.

        
    
Rep. Elijah Cummings, the panel’s top Democrat, complained that the committee’s investigation was moving at a “glacial” pace and said he and other Democrats “have grave concerns about the partisan path this committee has taken over the past year.”
Cummings accused Gowdy of excluding Democrats from the investigation, noting that Gowdy has held private meetings with at least five witnesses without Democrats present.
“You may have authority under House rules to conduct secret interviews and exclude Democrats, but doing so forfeits your right to continue calling this investigation ‘bipartisan,’ ” Cummings told Gowdy.
The remarks came as the committee held its third public hearing since its creation last May amid promises of bipartisanship and cooperation. Eight months later, the panel has devolved into finger pointing and accusations of political grandstanding and power plays.
Gowdy’s approach has drawn criticism from some conservatives, who accuse him of failing to stand up to what they see as obstruction by the Obama administration related to the events in Benghazi, a topic that’s been the subject of numerous congressional investigations.
A report by the House Intelligence Committee report last fall found that the CIA and the military acted properly in responding to the 2012 attacks. Debunking a series of persistent allegations hinting at dark conspiracies, the panel determined there was no intelligence failure, no delay in sending a CIA rescue team, no missed opportunity for a military rescue and no evidence the CIA was covertly shipping arms from Libya to Syria.
Gowdy said after the meeting that he was likely to call Clinton as a witness, but not until he receives more emails and other documents from the State Department.
Follow Matthew Daly on Twitter: https://twitter.com/MatthewDalyWDC
