In the wake of Hurricane Michael, Luzerne County natives Kathy and Michael Gelsleichter are recovering with the rest of the affected Gulf Coast.
Kathy Gelsleichter (nee Youngblood) and Michael Gelsleichter graduated from Bishop Hoban High School in 1979. Since 1994, they’ve made their home in Lynn Haven, Fla., a Panhandle city that was in the path of the deadly hurricane.
They decided on Oct. 9, as the storm approached, that they would stay in their home. At the time, the forecast did not predict such a powerful hurricane, but the storm quickly strengthened that day and into the next. The rapid intensification caught the family unaware. By the time they realized what had happened, it was too dangerous to leave, so they hunkered down in their home.
They had water, a generator and had boarded up the windows. It was difficult to keep a sense of time during the storm, but Kathy Gelsleichter estimates she, her husband and her daughter spent about six hours waiting on Oct. 10. For two hours around midday, the worst of the hurricane came through.
They lost any communication with the outside world except for an occasional delayed text from a friend in New Jersey sending updates of the forecast. The storm toppled large trees in their yard but luckily, none landed on the house.
Parts of the ceiling were ripped away, and water began coming through light fixtures.
“Never again will I do this. I will be the first person out. You will have to fight me to be the first car out of town,” Kathy Gelsleichter said.

        
    
The storm killed more than two dozen people in Florida and more elsewhere in the South, according to the Associated Press.
The outpouring of support in the wake of the hurricane has been amazing, she said. Friends from neighboring towns stopped by to offer water, gas and food. Utility workers have spent many long days repairing the infrastructure, and nonprofit organizations have set up in the area to help. The disaster has brought people closer together, she said.
The Gelsleichters heard from family and friends in Northeast Pennsylvania asking how they were doing and if they need anything.
“We have really appreciated that,” she said.
The family is cleaning up now, taking out water-logged parts of their home and furniture and doing other work they can handle themselves before they’re ready to hire a contractor.
A mantra has been keeping Kathy Gelsleichter going when she thinks about her home after the long recovery is complete: “It’s going to be so pretty when it’s done.”
“It has definitely been a life-changing, life-altering experience, when you look around at your house and the things scattered like that,” she said. “It’s all just stuff. You can get more stuff, make more stuff, but life is much more important than stuff.”
Contact the writer:
[email protected]
570-821-2051, @CVBillW
