A boy has been arrested over a violent attack which saw the victim's wife retrieve crime scene evidence herself.
The victim said he was assaulted and his jacket ripped in two on Clapham Common in February but police never looked for the clothing.
His wife, who made her own public appeal and collected the jacket, said DNA found on it was traced to someone since arrested on suspicion of robbery.
The Met confirmed a boy, 17, has been arrested in connection with the attack.
Victim David - whose name has been changed due to his concerns for his family's safety - previously told BBC London he was targeted by two males, hit and kicked and dragged on to the common in an attack lasting almost 10 minutes.
He said his jacket was ripped in two and half of it left on the grass but police never looked for it afterwards, causing his wife to appeal for help from the public and collect it herself after someone spotted it.
His wife Anne - whose name has also been changed - said DNA found on the jacket had now been traced to an individual who has since been arrested.
The Met confirmed to BBC London that a 17-year-old boy has been arrested on suspicion of attempted robbery and causing grievous bodily harm and been bailed pending further inquiries.
However, the force said it could not discuss evidence as the case is active.
Anne previously told the BBC that officers told her the torn jacket may hold important DNA evidence, adding by the time the jacket was spotted and they went back for it, it had to be pulled out of a bin.
"I was told to put it in a paper bag to preserve evidence," Anne said, but "it sat in the house for another three days before they got it".
Both David and Anne said they were disappointed in how the Met has handled their case.
Following the assault, David also said he could not reach an operator when he dialled 999.
He said he tried to get through to the police for about two minutes but got no answer. 
He managed to flag down a passing police car instead.
Although a Met officer came round to take a statement the next day, David and Anne said more than a week passed before they spoke to a robbery detective and CCTV footage was requested.
David said he required surgery for a bleed and fluid in his eye after the attack, and suffered cracked ribs and a partially detached shoulder ligament.
The Met Police previously said it was "unclear" what happened during David's call to 999 but it had dispatched officers after his call ended.
It is not clear whether his call was answered but it is thought police may have geolocated his call after he hung up.
In its latest statement, the force said: "Police were called shortly after 01:00 GMT on 13 February after an assault and attempted robbery was reported near to Clapham South Tube station.
"A man, aged in his 50s, reported he had been assaulted by two men who had attempted to steal his mobile phone.
"Officers from British Transport Police who were in the vicinity initially responded."
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hellobbclondon@bbc.co.uk
