People living in a Welsh seaside city voted worst in the UK insist their home has "lots to offer".A Which? survey involving 4,700 participants sharing their experiences of UK seaside towns over the past year described Bangor as "drab and run down".The Gwynedd city came bottom of 100 places listed, scoring just 42%, in contrast to Wales' best seaside town Portmeirion, also in Gwynedd, which scored 83%, and Llandudno in Conwy which was rated at 78%.But what do residents in Bangor think? 
"I thought Bangor was getting a hard time again," said Jan Underwood, who lives outside the historic university city."We don't really consider it to be a seaside town. It's on the Straits, there isn't really a beach, but Bangor has lots of other things to offer."It's a university town. It's the hub for Anglesey, for Snowdonia, for the Llŷn Peninsula - it just isn't really a seaside town."Bangor could be promoted as more of a holiday destination, but I don't think anybody would ever promote it as a seaside town."
Bangor received one-star ratings for food and drink, tourist attractions, and shopping, and two stars for everything else.Ray Mills said that the city's high street was "absolutely horrific," but noted that the area was not geared towards tourism in the way other places along the north Wales coast, such as Llandudno, are."It's probably the safest city in Britain and it's beautiful," said Ray, enjoying the sun above the Menai Strait."People don't find the right places. People need to find the right places to enjoy Bangor."Outside her Georgian home near Bangor's pier, with views stretching down to Beaumaris and the Irish Sea, Alwen Gwyn said that Bangor was blessed with a great local community and "there's always something going on, but you had to look for it"."It's not just the pier. It's all over Bangor. Music going on in the small venues, so there's definitely a community here that's trying to make a difference. "So when you read really negative press, 'dissing' the place, it's just disheartening. It's a really, really nice place to live."
Local residents are not the only ones taking issue with Bangor's poor review.In a statement to the Local Democracy Reporting Service, Bangor City Council said: "It’s disappointing to see Bangor City named as one of the UK's worst seaside towns. Such rankings often fail to capture the full picture and the unique charms that make Bangor City so special."The council also pointed out Bangor’s breathtaking views of the Menai Strait and its role as a gateway to the natural beauty of Eryri, or Snowdonia National Park, and added it acknowledged that the ratings highlight areas for improvement and offer an opportunity for Bangor to address its challenges.
