A surge in referrals has left a charity for people with eating disorders looking for bigger premises.
Personalised Eating Disorder Support or PEDS, currently operates out of an office in a Peterborough GP surgery.
The charity receives referrals from across Cambridgeshire and has been helping children, adults and families for the last 10 years.
Co-founder Mandy Scott said a growing workload since the pandemic meant the "pressure is on to find our new home".
She said the charity ideally needed suitable space for patients as well as rooms for administrative work, training and education.
Patient Duncan Pike told how his daughter had encouraged him to speak to the charity after he began to dramatically lose weight.
The 65-year-old developed anorexia in 2018 when he initially wanted to lose weight.
"I started weighing out my food. Even down to the lettuce leaf, and writing it down in a diary," he said.
"My weight was dropping down dramatically.
"As time went by it became an obsession. I would go for midnight walks to burn off the calories. Anorexia really got me. I was going down and down and down."
He said his daughter raised concerns and "kept on at me" to reach out.
"PEDS taught me the way to beat anorexia," Mr Pike added. 
"Today I'm very happy with who I am and where I am. They saved my life basically. And I can't thank them enough."
PEDS works daily with local schools, colleges, universities and GP surgeries to provide training and education in early intervention and awareness of eating disorders. 
Ms Scott added: "We started as two volunteer nurses and now have a team of 12 staff, plus our incredible valuable volunteers and a Board of six trustees. 
"We have to vacate our office at The Boroughbury Medical Centre by the end of May as they are expanding the GP surgery. 
"So the pressure is on to find our new home.
"Ideally, we need a space where it is suitable for patients and their families, as well as a room to operate our training and education and a room for our office admin."
The need for bigger offices comes as the charity approaches its 10th anniversary.
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
