A Brighton & Hove Albion fan has described the club's first European away victory as "a miracle".
The Seagulls won 2-0 against Ajax in Amsterdam on Thursday night.
Albion fan David Hammond said: "We've been through a lot - from trying to stay in the football league to now - this is the best ever away trip."
Ahead of the match, one optimistic supporter said he had even booked a hotel in Dublin ahead of the Europa League final in May.
George Batchelor, who attended the match with his father Adrian and friend Adam Style, said: "It was an amazing first win away in Europe. I can't ask for much more. 
"We did so well for 70 minutes, and then had to hold our own with some scary moments, but I couldn't be prouder of this team."
Also in the stadium, Sam and Max Knight, grandsons of former Albion chairman Dick Knight, said that to have won at the Johan Cruyff Arena was "unbelievable".
"We've been to so many away games, but this has been the best experience. One hundred percent," Max said. 
"To be here is one thing, but to win the game comfortably is even better," Sam added. 
Mr Hammond could not contain his excitement after the historic win.  
"I'm so happy. We have a really good chance of going through to the next round. And from there, who knows," he said. 
In Amsterdam city centre, Albion fans told the BBC they had travelled by plane, train and car to the Netherlands.
Supporters Anita Yardley and Mel Hempelman, who were among hundreds gathered in Dam Square, said they had made the trip together as their husbands don't like football.
"It's so sad," Ms Yardley said. "We go on the supporters' coach a lot and there's four or five of us old women with husbands that don't like football, so we go on our own.
"Everywhere Brighton go, we go."
One die-hard fan called Joey, who has been to all but one Albion home and away match this season, said he had booked a hotel in Dublin before the draw had even been made.
"I saw the final was in Dublin and I thought, 'I'll have some of that'. I know you shouldn't be that confident, but I think we're one of the better teams in the Europa League," he said.
"If Albion don't win, it'll depend who is playing whether I go or not. If it's Liverpool playing, then definitely not."
Meanwhile, a group of Albion supporters from the Netherlands called the Dutch Seagulls offered free traditional stroopwafels to visiting away fans. 
Follow BBC South East on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk. 
