A grandmother attacked by XL bully dogs died from a bite wound to her upper right limb, an inquest has heard.
Esther Martin, 68, was visiting her 11-year-old grandson at a house in Jaywick, near Clacton-on-Sea in Essex, when she was injured on 3 February.
An inquest opening in Chelmsford was told police found her with "unsurvivable injuries".
Ashley Warren, 39, was arrested on suspicion of dangerous dog offences and released on police bail until March.
Senior Coroner for Essex Lincoln Brookes told the hearing that Ms Martin suffered an "extraordinary, tragic death".
He suspended the inquest at the request of Essex Police for three months while the force continued its criminal investigation.
Coroner's officer Andy Flack told the hearing police were called to a disturbance at an address Ms Martin was staying at in Hillman Avenue at 16:00 GMT.
"She was discovered in the property along with two large dogs. She was unresponsive and her injuries were unsurvivable."
Mr Flack said the grandmother, from Woodford Green in London, was pronounced dead at 16:47.
A post-mortem examination gave her provisional cause of death as a dog bite to her upper right limb.
Following the inquest, Ms Martin's family asked people to "hold her memory in their hearts" in a statement provided to the BBC.
"As a family we would like to thank everyone for their support following the tragic loss of our mother, Esther Martin," they said.
"As a family we are finding her loss unbearable."
An XL bully is the largest kind of American bully dog. Other types include standard, pocket and classic.  
The government described them as large dogs "with a muscular body and blocky head, suggesting great strength and power for [their] size".  
In England and Wales, the breed has been added to the list of dogs banned under the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991. It means breeding, selling or abandoning them is illegal.   
Certificate of Exemptions, allowing owners to keep their XL bullies, can no longer be applied for.  
American XL bully dogs must be kept on a lead and muzzled in public. 
Scotland has also announced a ban, which will come into force later in the year. 
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
