FORT WORTH, Texas (AP) — A white Fort Worth, Texas, police officer who fatally shot a black woman while she was inside her home was arrested Monday and charged with murder.
Here’s a look at that and other high-profile cases in recent years in which officers were charged in the fatal shootings of black people:
Tarrant County court records say Dean was 
arrested and charged
 with murder Monday night for the shooting death of 28-year-old Atatiana Jefferson. Fort Worth, Texas, authorities say Jefferson was killed early Saturday after a neighbor called police to report that her front door had been open for hours. Bodycam 
video
 released by police showed that Dean walked around the side of the house and fired one shot through a window a split-second after shouting at Jefferson to show her hands. Dean was not heard identifying himself as police in the video. Interim Police Chief Ed Kraus said Dean resigned on Monday before he could be fired.
Guyger was 
convicted
 October 1 for the September 2018 killing of 26-year-old Botham Jean. Authorities say Guyger told investigators that while returning home from work, she mistook Jean’s door for her own and that she shot him inside his home when he didn’t obey her commands. She was 
sentenced
 the following day to 10 years in prison.
A jury convicted Officer Jason Van Dyke 
of second-degree murder
 in the 2014 fatal shooting of Laquan McDonald. The white Chicago police officer shot the black teenager 16 times. The release of police dashcam video 13 months after the shooting sparked large protests and led to the ouster of Chicago’s top police official. Three other officers 
were acquitted
 of trying to cover up the shooting.

        
    
Bates, a white Tulsa County volunteer sheriff’s deputy, 
was sentenced in 2016
 to four years in prison for second-degree manslaughter in the 2015 death of Eric Harris, 44, who was unarmed and restrained. Bates served less than half the sentence.
Burns, a white Atlanta police officer was 
charged
 with felony murder and other counts in the June 2016 death of Deravis Caine Rogers, 22. Prosecutors say Burns was responding to a suspicious person call when he fired shots into a car driven by Rogers, killing him. In September 2018, a 
new indictment reinstated
 felony murder charges against the former officer barely a month after Fulton County District Attorney Paul Howard dropped the original indictment. The new indictment charged Burns with aggravated assault and violating his oath of office.
Heaggan-Brown, a black Milwaukee police officer, was 
acquitted
 in June 2017 of first-degree reckless homicide after shooting 23-year-old Sylville Smith during a foot chase in August 2016. Heaggan-Brown was fired after unrelated sexual-assault allegations surfaced.
Liang, a rookie police officer in New York City, was convicted of manslaughter in 2016 for the 2014 death of 28-year-old Akai Gurley. Liang, an American of Chinese descent, said he was patrolling a public housing high-rise with his gun drawn when a sound startled him and he fired accidentally. A bullet ricocheted off a wall, hitting Gurley. A judge reduced the conviction to negligent homicide and 
sentenced
 Liang to five years’ probation and 800 hours of community service.
Oliver was 
convicted of murder
 in the 2017 death of 15-year-old Jordan Edwards and was 
sentenced
 to 15 years in prison. Oliver, a white police officer in the Dallas suburb of Balch Springs, fired into a car packed with black teenagers, killing Edwards.
Pownall is 
charged
 with third-degree murder for the 2017 death of 30-year-old David Jones, who was shot in the back as he fled. Pownall, who is white, was fired from the Philadelphia police force last year. He is awaiting trial.
In March, Rosfeld was 
acquitted
 in the 
shooting death
 of 17-year-old Antwon Rose Jr. after the teen fled from a traffic stop on June 19 in Pennsylvania.
Shelby, who was a white police officer in Tulsa, Oklahoma, was 
acquitted
 of manslaughter after shooting 40-year-old Terence Crutcher in 2016. Crutcher, who was black, was unarmed. Shelby resigned from the Tulsa Police Department and later went to work for an area sheriff’s office.
Slager pleaded guilty to federal civil rights charges after killing 50-year-old Walter Scott in 2015. The white North Charleston police officer fired at Scott’s back from 17 feet (5 meters) away. Slager was 
sentenced
 to 20 years in prison in December 2017. His conviction 
was appealed
 and upheld.
Stockley, a white St. Louis police officer, was 
acquitted
 of murder in 2017 in the 2011 shooting death of 24-year-old Anthony Lamar Smith. Stockley insisted he saw Smith holding a gun and felt that he was in imminent danger. Prosecutors accused Stockley of planting a gun in Smith’s car.
Tensing, a white University of Cincinnati police officer, was tried twice for murder after he killed Samuel DuBose, whom he pulled over for driving without a front license plate in 2015. DuBose, who was black, was unarmed. The jury was hung both times and the charges were dismissed. Tensing 
received $350,000
 from the university when he agreed to resign.
Yanez, a police officer in Falcon Heights, Minnesota, was charged with second-degree manslaughter after he fatally shot a 32-year-old black motorist, Philando Castile, in 2016. Yanez, who is Latino, was 
acquitted
 in June 2017. He has left the police department.
Delke, a white police officer in Nashville, Tennessee, was 
charged
 with criminal homicide in the death of 25-year-old Daniel Hambrick after surveillance footage appeared to show him chasing the black man and opening fire as he fled from the officer in July. Delke claims Hambrick pointed a gun at him, but prosecutors question that claim. A grand jury 
indicted
 Delke in January on a charge of first-degree murder.
For the AP’s complete coverage of the Amber Guyger murder trial: 
https://www.apnews.com/BothamJean
