The chairman of a flooding alliance group is calling for a dedicated "minister for the coast" to tackle the risk of flooding.
Norfolk County Council discussed flood prevention and a campaign for a coasts minister in a scrutiny meeting.
Storm Babet caused widespread flood damage in October. 
Henry Cator, from the group, said he wanted a minister with "the specific responsibility for looking after floods and coastal communities."
The Norfolk Strategic Flooding Alliance was set up following heavy flooding which affected 350 properties in Norfolk in December 2020. 
Chairman Mr Cator said: "Where you have offshore wind or offshore gas coming in at Bacton, these things are all coming in to the county and running through the county and yet we don't get the money to ensure that is protected from such things as coastal flooding - and it should be."
During Storm Babet, a culvert at the back of Lynn and Hans Shortt's home in Mill Lane, Attleborough, became blocked, leaving floodwater pouring in their home.
It is the fourth time the couple's home has flooded.
Mr Shortt, 72, said: "When it rains, we always panic because we know that's when something's going to happen."
"We're hoping that, moving forward now with the council, they realise what the danger is.
"It's not just for us, it's for the residents of Attleborough who have been flooded."
Norfolk County Council's scrutiny committee met on Wednesday to discuss flooding prevention.
Eric Vardy, cabinet member for environment and waste said: "There needs to be some recognition by central government that Norfolk in particular and East Anglia is vulnerable to flooding because of its nature and also because of its land layout."
A spokesperson from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) said that since April 2021 they had invested more than £1.5bn to "protect better more than 67,000 homes and businesses across the country as part of our record £5.2bn investment in flood and coastal erosion schemes."
They added: "Flooding and coastal erosion already form part of ministerial portfolios. 
"We know the devastating impact that flooding can have on communities and businesses as we face more extreme weather brought about by climate change, including in Norfolk."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
