CANNES, France (AP) — Hollywood royalty is back at the 
Cannes Film Festival
 for its annual celebration of cinema along the French Riviera.
Premieres bring an elegant parade of stars nightly and moments that become indelible Cannes images, whether it’s 
Francis Ford Coppola’s return
 to the Palais des Festivals or French actor Judith Godrèche and other actors posing with their hands over their mouths to 
draw attention to France’s burgeoning #MeToo movement
.
There’s time for levity, too, like 
Anya Taylor-Joy saluting her “Furiosa” director
, George Miller, or the 
arrival of Messi
, the canine “Anatomy of a Fall” star who performed tricks for photographers and served as a bridge to last year’s standout festival.
Meryl Streep poses for photographers upon arrival at the awards ceremony and the premiere of the film ‘The Second Act’ during the 77th international film festival, Cannes, southern France, Tuesday, May 14, 2024. (Photo by Daniel Cole/Invision/AP)
Grace VanderWaal, from left, Giancarlo Esposito, Aubrey Plaza, director Francis Ford Coppola, and Romy Mars pose for photographers upon arrival at the premiere of the film ‘Megalopolis.’ (Photo by Scott A Garfitt/Invision/AP)
Daytime photocalls can become playgrounds for stars and photographers alike, like when Nic Cage tossed his hat while promoting “The Surfer.” (Hats have been a go-to accessory this year, worn by Coppola and Giancarlo Esposito at the “Megalopolis” premiere; Meryl Streep, 
an honorary Palme d’Or recipient
, opted for one for her photocall.)
Filmmakers praise Cannes for the way it celebrates films and the global platform it provides. So it’s only fitting that Coppola returned, 
45 years after his “Apocalypse Now” swept
 through the festival, and so did Paul Schrader, who wrote the 1976 Palme d’or Or winner “Taxi Driver.”
Emma Stone poses for photographers upon arrival at the premiere of the film ‘Kinds of Kindness’ at the 77th international film festival, Cannes, southern France, Friday, May 17, 2024. (Photo by Daniel Cole/Invision/AP)
Anya Taylor-Joy, left, and director George Miller pose for photographers at the photo call for the film ‘Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga’ at the 77th Cannes Film Festival. (Photo by Scott A Garfitt/Invision/AP)
Miller, too, has been a 
vocal fan of the Cannes festival
 since serving as a juror and has used it to launch several films.

        
    
“I got addicted it to simply because it’s like film camp,” he says. “It’s kind of optimal cinema, really.”
And there’s still another week to go.
Hunter Schafer, left, and Margaret Qualley pose for photographers upon arrival at the premiere of the film ‘Kinds of Kindness’ at the 77th international film festival, Cannes, southern France, Friday, May 17, 2024. (Photo by Daniel Cole/Invision/AP)
For more coverage of this year’s Cannes festival, visit: 
https://apnews.com/hub/cannes-film-festival
