A woman killed in a dog attack had been trying to distract fighting puppies with a broom, her daughter says.
Esther Martin, 68, died in Jaywick, near Clacton-on-Sea, Essex, on Saturday while visiting her grandson.
A 39-year-old man has been bailed on suspicion of dangerous dog offences and the two animals have been destroyed.
Ms Martin's daughter told the BBC the animals were banned XL bully dogs, but police said they were waiting for the breed to be confirmed by experts.
Sonia Martin, 47, said her mother, from Woodford Green, London, had been in a house on Hillman Avenue visiting her 11-year-old grandson at the time of the attack.
"There were adult XL bully dogs in the property, and my mum had raised concerns to the owners about them being dangerous and quite aggressive," she said.
"There were also six puppies."
Ms Martin said she believed the puppies had been fighting, and that her mother had been told by the dog's owner earlier to "put a broom in among them, to distract them".  
"That's when she was attacked," she said.
Ch Supt Glen Pavelin, from Essex Police, said the suspect's relationship to Ms Martin - who was a grandmother of eight and great-grandmother of three - was "familial".
On Monday, police said they were "making good progress" in the investigation, despite a "number of complexities".
Ms Martin said she received a knock at the door from a local police officer at her home in Chesterfield, Derbyshire, at 22:00 GMT, informing her that her mother was seriously hurt.
She described how her nephew "ran out of the house screaming for help" and said some neighbours grabbed spades to try to "fight off" the dogs.
"We'd really like to thank all the neighbours for coming and helping and trying to save my mum's life," she added.
"My concern was if my nephew hadn't run out of the house what could have then happened to him? He's 11." 
Lucy Shaw, 38, who lives nearby, told the PA Media news agency that she heard screaming.
"We went out into the garden and it was all quiet and then we heard dogs barking, and then someone screaming," she recalled.
"We went back in after a while because it sounded horrific." 
Mike Coleman, 74, who lives a few doors down, said he saw a man coming down the road to the address and shouting.
He said: "He starts whacking at the windows. He appeared panicked and said 'phone the police'.
"My wife phoned them and minutes later the police came - two cars, then three then five, and then they blocked the road off. 
"I heard the shots of them being destroyed, then that was it."
His wife Julie Coleman, 67, said the man they saw shouting "said there was a lady inside the property who was being attacked by two dogs".
"He was hollering and shouting 'they're XL bullies'," she remembered.
Ch Supt Pavelin praised the six officers who entered the house for "their swift actions".
"Their unflinching bravery and professionalism ensured that there is no ongoing threat to the people of Essex as a result of this incident," he continued.
"Both dogs were destroyed inside the house.
"I would also like to thank the local people who had tried to get into the house to help Esther Martin. You should be proud."
Ms Martin said her mother was "getting her life back together" following the death of another daughter two years ago.
"She loved going out on day trips, the coaches were her favourite - she actually had a couple booked with one of her nieces," she recalled.
Her mother, she said, had worked at Tesco in Leyton, east London, but retired at about the time of her daughter's death.
She said the dog attack had robbed their whole family.   
"It's killed our mum and it's killed our children's grandmother. I'm getting married in a couple of years and my mum won't be at that." 
Ch Supt Pavelin added: "Our thoughts remain with everyone affected by what has happened.
"I have seen the flowers laid down for Esther Martin, as have my officers. I would like to thank all those who have come together to pay tribute to her."
He urged anyone with information to get in touch or speak to officers at the scene.
An XL bully is the largest kind of American bully dog. Other types include standard, pocket and classic.  
The government described them as large dogs "with a muscular body and blocky head, suggesting great strength and power for [their] size".  
In England and Wales, the breed has been added to the list of dogs banned under the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991. It means breeding, selling or abandoning them is illegal.   
Certificate of Exemptions, allowing owners to keep their XL bullies, can no longer be applied for.  
American XL bully dogs must be kept on a lead and muzzled in public. 
Scotland has also announced a ban, which will come into force later in the year. 
Are you affected by the issues raised in this story? Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways:
If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission. 
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
