Associated Press photographers were there for all the buzz surrounding Caitlin Clark in the women’s NCAA championship game, as well as soccer action in Europe and the Formula One Grand Prix in Japan.
Clark led the Hawkeyes to a second straight title game while helping to bring sellouts and boost TV ratings. In the end, though, it was South Carolina and coach Dawn Staley lifting the trophy.
LeBron James was showcased fist-bumping a young fan in an NBA game against the Washington Wizards, and in baseball Seattle Mariners’ Julio Rodríguez went into full stretch to make a leaping catch on a fly ball in a game against the Cleveland Guardians.
Manchester United’s Kobbie Mainoo, center, is challenged by Chelsea’s Enzo Fernandez, left, and Chelsea’s Conor Gallagher during the English Premier League soccer match between Chelsea and Manchester United at Stamford Bridge in London, Thursday, April 4, 2024. (AP Photo/Kin Cheung)
Soccer star Kylian Mbappé scored again for Paris Saint-Germain, while Canada women’s team enjoyed a penalty shootout win against Brazil in the SheBelieves Cup in the U.S.
Red Bull driver Max Verstappen was pictured in Japan, winning another F1 race to extend his dominance in the sport.
The selection was curated by Natacha Pisarenko
Fans vie for an autograph from Seattle Mariners center fielder Julio Rodríguez before a baseball game between the Mariners and the Cleveland Guardians, Wednesday, April 3, 2024, in Seattle. (AP Photo/Lindsey Wasson)
Seraphine Okemba, center, of France is tackled by Kristi Kirshe of the United States during the women semifinal match in the Hong Kong Sevens rugby tournament in Hong Kong, Sunday, April 7, 2024. (AP Photo/Louise Delmotte)
Vegas Golden Knights goaltender Logan Thompson (36) sprays himself with water during the third period of the team’s NHL hockey game against the Arizona Coyotes on Friday, April 5, 2024, in Tempe, Ariz. (AP Photo/Darryl Webb)
England’s goalkeeper Mary Earps, center right, clears the ball during the Euro 2025 group A3 qualifying soccer match between England and Sweden at the Wembley stadium in London, Friday, April 5, 2024. (AP Photo/Dave Shopland)
PSG’s Kylian Mbappe celebrates after scoring his side’s opening goal during the French Cup semifinal soccer match between Paris Saint-Germain and Rennes at the Parc des Princes stadium in Paris, France, Wednesday, April 3, 2024. (AP Photo/Thibault Camus)
Seattle Mariners center fielder Julio Rodríguez makes a leaping catch on a fly ball hit by Cleveland Guardians’ Will Brennan during the second inning of a baseball game Monday, April 1, 2024, in Seattle. (AP Photo/Lindsey Wasson)
Manchester City’s Erling Haaland warms up before the English Premier League soccer match between Crystal Palace and Manchester City at Selhurst Park stadium in London, Saturday, April 6, 2024.(AP Photo/Frank Augstein)
Canada players celebrate winning in a shootout against Brazil in a SheBelieves Cup women’s soccer game, Saturday, April 6, 2024, in Atlanta. (AP Photo/Mike Stewart)
AC Milan’s supporters cheer during the Serie A soccer match between AC Milan and Lecce at the San Siro stadium, in Milan, Italy, Saturday, April 6, 2024. (AP Photo/Antonio Calanni)
Los Angeles Lakers forward LeBron James, left, fist-bumps a young fan during the second half of the team’s NBA basketball game against the Washington Wizards on Wednesday, April 3, 2024, in Washington. (AP Photo/John McDonnell)
Detroit Red Wings left wing David Perron (57) celebrates after scoring past Tampa Bay Lightning goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy (88) during the third period of an NHL hockey game Monday, April 1, 2024, in Tampa, Fla. (AP Photo/Chris O’Meara)
Detroit Tigers Colt Keith (33) steals second base as New York Mets shortstop Joey Wendle, left, is unable to handle the throw during the second inning in the second baseball game of a doubleheader, Thursday, April 4, 2024, in New York. (AP Photo/Noah K. Murray)
Liverpool’s Alexis Mac Allister, centre, celebrates with Liverpool’s Darwin Nunez, left, and Liverpool’s Luis Diaz after scoring his side’s second goal during the English Premier League soccer match between Liverpool and Sheffield United at the Anfield stadium in Liverpool, England, Thursday, Apr. 4, 2024. (AP Photo/Jon Super)
Pernilla Lindberg hits from a bunker at the ninth green during the second round of the LPGA T-Mobile Match Play golf tournament Thursday, April 4, 2024, in North Las Vegas, Nev. (AP Photo/John Locher)
Houston Astros starting pitcher Ronel Blanco, right, celebrates with catcher Yainer Diaz after throwing a no hitter in a baseball game against the Toronto Blue Jays, Monday, April 1, 2024, in Houston. (AP Photo/Kevin M. Cox)
Manchester United’s Antony reacts during the English Premier League soccer match between Manchester United and Liverpool at the Old Trafford stadium in Manchester, England, Sunday, April 7, 2024. (AP Photo/Dave Thompson)
Minnesota Twins’ Max Kepler, third from top left, swings at a pitch during the fifth inning of a baseball game against the Cleveland Guardians, Thursday, April 4, 2024, in Minneapolis. (AP Photo/Abbie Parr)
Red Bull driver Max Verstappen of the Netherlands drives past cherry blossoms as he takes part in the first free practice session at the Suzuka Circuit in Suzuka, central Japan, Friday, April 5, 2024, ahead of Sunday’s Japanese Formula One Grand Prix. (AP Photo/Hiro Komae)
Iowa guard Caitlin Clark (22) reacts after hitting a three-point shot against LSU during the third quarter of an Elite Eight round college basketball game during the NCAA Tournament, Monday, April 1, 2024, in Albany, N.Y. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer)
Red Bull team members run to avoid splash of Red Bull drinks after posing for a group photo, following Red Bull drivers Max Verstappen, center, of the Netherlands won the first place in the Japanese Formula One Grand Prix at the Suzuka Circuit in Suzuka, central Japan, Sunday, April 7, 2024. (AP Photo/Hiro Komae)
AP sports: 
https://apnews.com/sports
