One of the last surviving British servicemen to take part in the D-Day landings has died at the age of 98.George Winter, from Reading in Berkshire, served in the Royal Navy between 1943 and 1947 - having initially volunteered as a 17-year-old.He was one of about 150,000 allied troops who took part in the Normandy Landings on 6 June 1944 - serving as a quartermaster on a minesweeper.George's grandson Tony Winter told the BBC that his grandfather was a "really funny guy" who "loved telling stories".
In an interview with BBC Radio Berkshire just over a month before his death, Mr Winter described his early life, and his time serving in the Royal Navy.Having volunteered at 17, he said his "dear old mum was very worried", adding that she "wasn't very happy" about him volunteering - but that he felt he had to "do something".During his four years in the navy, Mr Winter visited Scotland, Iceland and Russia whilst serving on minesweepers HMS Harrier and HMS Combatant, as well as on battle class destroyer HMS Aisne.
But it was the D-Day landings that Mr Winter remembered the most vividly."On D-Day we led the way - the minesweepers were the first there."We just swept it all clear so the big ships could come in without hitting any mines - we were right of the French coast - that's where the Jerries [German troops] were firing at us."Mr Winter's ship came under artillery and sniper fire, and sailed within view of the fighting on Juno, Sword, and Gold beaches."Lots of lads went in the water, which was a shame - I jumped in the water to get the boys out."Couldn't have them drowning could we?"He said he remembered being "frightened" but added: "It made a man out of me."
Tony Winter said his grandfather "really cared for people and wanted to look after people"."He was very strong on the belief of the family and keeping people together and everybody pulling in the same direction - family was a massive thing for him."
He said his grandfather was "always very proud" of being part of D-Day, adding "that is always going to be remembered"."With everything that he did and everything he achieved and all his medals, I think his proudest achievement was being a father, grandfather and great grandfather," he added.
George Brown, chairman of the Royal British Legion's Arborfield branch, said: “George was absolutely fantastic - we all loved and adored him."He gave everything for us, so we could be here, he went to war for us - I wouldn’t be here, my children wouldn’t be here"We owe this guy everything, our way of life, our culture." "There’s nothing I can say that can ever express the love, and the gratitude, that we owe him, because what he gave us is just huge - it’s immense,” Mr Brown added.
When asked what his message to younger people would be after all he had learnt from the conflict he had seen, veteran George Winter simply said: "Just be friendly to people and don't make anymore wars."
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X (Twitter), or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2240.
