Sheep statues on a popular South Yorkshire walking trail have been vandalised with "mindless" graffiti.
The granite figures, dotted around the Penistone Art Trail, were sprayed with pink and blue paint between Christmas Eve and Boxing Day, it is believed.
A local councillor, who shared photos of the sheep online, said it was "disappointing" and the perpetrators should "get a more productive hobby".
The BBC has contacted South Yorkshire Police for comment.
The 11 statues, which were created to "bring visitors flocking" to the bustling market town, can be spotted in amusing poses near various landmarks.
Among them is a sheep on roller-skates outside the leisure centre and a football-kit wearing one at Penistone Church Football Club.
Barnsley Council said the project's aim was to encourage people to spend more time on the high street and to explore the local area. 
Councillor Hannah Kitching, Barnsley Liberal Democrats leader for Penistone West, told the BBC she was "disappointed" with the vandalism because the people of Penistone "respect" the art trail and that ruining the statues "achieves nothing".
She said: "If you spoil the place you live in, you have spoilt it for yourself, your friends and your family.
"I would say to the vandals, treat your own things how you like, but these statues are not yours, they belong to the public."
Ms Kitching also said that the statues were made out of granite, which was "luckily, quite easy to clean". 
It appears the Barnsley Metropolitan Council Graffiti Team has already got rid of the paint on the statue at the football club, with one resident saying on social media it now looked "spotless".
Ms Kitching added that she hoped the vandalism was a "one off" and that it should not deter people from creating "nice things" for the community.
Chester-based sculptor Michael Disley was commissioned to shape the sheep from natural granite and the pieces were completed in November.
The council said the project was "rooted in the heritage of Penistone" where sheep sales have been held for hundreds of years.
The area even has its own white-faced woodland breed known as Penistone sheep.
Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
