BOSTON (AP) — The New York Yankees have had all kind of trouble scoring runs in the opening month of the season.
Those deficiencies continue to be on display in a big way this week against the Red Sox.
Jackie Bradley Jr. and Mookie Betts had three RBIs apiece, David Ortiz homered again and the Boston Red Sox blanked the struggling Yankees 8-0 on Saturday night.
The Red Sox will look to sweep the three-game series Sunday night when David Price pitches for Boston in his first regular-season taste of the longtime rivalry.
New York has lost four straight and 12 of 16. In their last four losses the Yankees have been outscored 25-5.
“This is not helpless,” Yankees manager Joe Girardi said. “It’s frustrating for all of us — what we’re going through. You know what: we’ve got to get out of it. The only way to get out of it is keep working.”
Rick Porcello (5-0) had six strikeouts and gave up five hits in seven innings to tie for the major league lead in wins.
Porcello has pitched at least six innings in each of his last 13 starts since coming off the DL last August. That is the longest such streak of his career and the longest active streak in the majors.
The Yankees managed five hits. Michael Pineda (1-3) took the loss, allowing two runs and five hits in five innings. The loss marked the Yankees’ second four-game losing streak this season.
Boston entered the game leading the American League with 5.13 runs per game. The Red Sox bats didn’t show any signs of slowing down.

        
    
Pineda had won his previous three starts at Fenway Park, giving up just one earned run in each victory.
That changed in the second inning when Betts dropped in a little flare down the right-field line, scoring Christian Vasquez and Bradley.
They were the only runs Pineda gave up before getting pulled. Chasen Shreve, who entered in the sixth, was responsible for Boston’s two runs in that inning.
“It’s tough because you believe (in) your team — everything’s going to be better,” Pineda said. “We’ll be OK. You continue grinding and fighting every day and everything can be better.”
Ortiz added the fifth home run of his farewell season — and second in two nights against the Yankees — in the seventh, taking Johnny Barbato’s 2-1 fastball over the fence in right field.
“It’s frustrating. I feel like we have a good team, a good offensive unit,” left fielder Brett Gardner said. “I feel like we’re capable of scoring a lot of runs in bunches when things are going right.”
Yankees closer Aroldis Chapman was back on the mound in Florida one day after announcing on Instagram that he had become a U.S. citizen. The left-hander completed his third week of extended spring training games by striking out two and allowing one hit over a scoreless inning against Pittsburgh minor leaguers. Chapman, serving a 30-game suspension stemming from baseball’s new domestic violence policy, can join the Yankees on May 9.
Yankees: Girardi said OF Aaron Hicks, who pinch-hit in the eighth inning after missing the last six games with left shoulder bursitis, should be ready to return to the starting lineup in the series finale Sunday.
Red Sox: RHP Carson Smith (right flexor muscle strain) made his first rehab appearance Friday night with Double-A Portland against Reading, retiring the only two batters he faced. Smith pitched another clean, nine-pitch inning on Saturday. Manager John Farrell said Smith will be evaluated Sunday and remains on track to be activated from the DL in time for Boston’s series in Chicago next week.
Yankees: RHP Nathan Eovaldi (1-2, 4.38 ERA) will make his fifth start of the season Sunday night. He took a no-hitter into the seventh inning of his previous start last Monday at Texas.
Red Sox: Price (3-0, 5.76) is 13-7 in his career against the Yankees, with a 4.04 ERA in 31 games. He is 3-0 in his last four starts against them.
