Pupils at schools attended by two young girls found dead along with two adults are to be offered trauma support.
The four were all discovered at a house in Costessey, near Norwich, at about 07:15 GMT on Friday.
The girls, a woman, 36, and a 45-year-old man, named locally as Bartlomiej Kuczynski, were found dead inside the property in Allan Bedford Crescent.
Both children attended local schools and head teachers have said pupils would be offered support. 
Matthew Cross, headteacher at Queen's Hill Primary School and Dr Roger Harris at Taverham High School acknowledged the challenges their pupils could face.  
"Both our schools have worked closely alongside colleagues from Norfolk County Council's Critical Incident Support Team over the weekend to ensure we have extra support and provision in place, so we can meet the needs of both our pupils and staff at this difficult time," they said in a joint statement. 
Dr Bianca Finger-Berry, critical incident lead at Norfolk County Council, said: "Normal routines with opportunities to access additional services can be really helpful."
She added that children would be able to "receive emotional support from school staff and educational professionals". 
Norfolk Police said a man and children lived at the Costessey address, and the woman who died was a relative who was not a permanent resident. 
Post-mortem examinations carried out on Sunday revealed Mr Kuczynski died from a single stab wound to the neck while the woman died from multiple stab wounds to her neck. 
Formal identification had yet to take place and next of kin were being kept informed of developments and supported by specialist officers.
Detectives also confirmed they were not looking for anyone else in connection with the deaths.
Det Ch Insp Chris Burgess said: "This is a tragic incident, distressing for all involved and it is clear from the reaction it's caused a lot of shock and upset in the local community." 
On Saturday, Norfolk Police said it had referred itself to the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) for the second time. 
The first referral was over a callout to the same house on 14 December as part of a missing persons inquiry. 
The force confirmed that investigation would now be re-examined.
A second referral was made due to 999 call being received from the house at 06:00 on Friday, to which officers were not deployed. 
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
