The final parts of a railway track, that is part of a multi-billion pound project, have been laid between Bicester and Bletchley.
East West Rail (EWR) aims to connect and increase public transport options between Oxford and Cambridge via Bicester, Milton Keynes and Bedford.
Some residents said their objections were being ignored by developers.
EWR said that an upcoming statutory consultation would be a chance for specific feedback.
The project plans to connect Oxford and Cambridge and open access to more work and education opportunities.
CEO Beth West said journey times between the two cities would be reduced to 90 minutes from the current "two and a half hours by car or coach".
She added that the project, which is estimated to cost "about £6 and a bit billion", was "on track", with the Oxford and Milton Keynes service planned to open in 2025, while the entire line to Cambridge should open "in the early 2030s".
Rail minister Huw Merriman, who was brought up in Buckingham, said he was "really happy" and "incredibly proud" to see the railway "return to life".
Greg Smith, conservative MP for Buckingham, said there was "broad support for East West Rail as a new line".
"It's going to give us great connectivity with a new station Winslow between the Chiltern mainline and the West Coast mainline," he said.
He admitted communities had been impacted by the construction.
"To their credit, East West Rail are putting back some of the things they broke. They're resurfacing 21 roads," he said.
The new railway line has also prompted fears of a housing sprawl in Oxfordshire.
The developers' reference to an "ambition for a million homes" was singled out by critics of the scheme.
Paul Troop, group secretary of the Bicester Bike Users' Group, said the shortcomings with consultation "are epitomised by what's happening in Bicester".
"The railway runs right through the middle of town and will effectively cut the north off from the south," he said.
A National Audit Office (NAO) report stated: "Residents and respondents to consultations are not being listened to and are not receiving timely or accurate feedback to their questions."
Ms West said their local representative groups had had numerous meetings with ward, parish and county councillors, as well as drop-in events.
"We'll be having more after our statutory consultations comes out, which is the opportunity for people to feedback specifically on our route and what the options are," she said.
"What's really important for us is we're finding the maximum benefits for the wider community."
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2240.
