NEW YORK (AP) — The Latest on the U.S. Open tennis tournament (all times local):
12:20 a.m.
Ons Jabeur extended her career-best run at Flushing Meadows by beating Veronika Kudermetova 7-6 (1), 6-4 to reach the quarterfinals.
The No. 5-seeded Jabeur was the runner-up at Wimbledon in July and now is into the quarterfinals at a major tournament for the fourth time.
Jabeur will face unseeded Ajla Tomljanovic for a semifinal berth. Tomljanovic eliminated 23-time Grand Slam champion Serena Williams in the third round on Friday, then beat Liudmila Samsonova on Sunday.
10:45 p.m.
The woman who 
ended Serena Williams’ stay at the U.S. Open
 has won again to reach the quarterfinals in New York for the first time in nine appearances.
Ajla Tomljanovic beat Liudmila Samsonova 7-6 (8), 6-1 at Louis Armstrong Stadium in a matchup between unseeded players. 
Tomljanovic is a 29-year-old Australian who is now into her third Grand Slam quarterfinal after making it that far at Wimbledon the past two years. 
This win comes two nights after Tomljanovic defeated Williams in three sets in what is expected to be the last match of the 23-time Grand Slam champion’s career.
10:20 p.m.
Nick Kyrgios eliminated defending U.S. Open champion and No. 1-ranked Daniil Medvedev in the fourth round. 
Kyrgios beat Medvedev 7-6 (11), 3-6, 6-3, 6-2 on Sunday night in Arthur Ashe Stadium. 
This is the first time Kyrgios has reached the quarterfinals at Flushing Meadows. 

        
    
It also extends the recent run of high-level play for the 23rd-seeded Kyrgios, a 27-year-old Australian who reached his first Grand Slam final at Wimbledon in July. 
Kyrgios was up to some of his usual anctics but he also outplayed Medvedev with the help of 21 aces. 
Next for Kyrgios is a matchup on Tuesday against Karen Khachanov.
6:10 p.m.
No. 12 seed Coco Gauff wagged her finger and showed the prowess that made her a U.S. Open championship contender in a 7-5, 7-5 win over Zhang Shuai.
The 18-year-old Gauff is in the U.S. Open quarterfinals for the first time in her career and will play France’s Caroline Garcia. Gauff is the youngest American woman to reach the U.S. Open quarterfinals since 2009.
Gauff had the New York crowd firmly on her side and fans erupted in the third set when she wagged her finger like Dikembe Mutombo’s signature move after she went up 6-5 in the second set. Zhang had smacked a ball into the net and covered her ears because of the noise.
3:40 p.m.
Casper Ruud continued his run at the U.S. Open and his bid to become the first No. 1-ranked player out of Norway with a 6-1, 6-2, 6-7 (4), 6-2 win over Corentin Moutet.
He reached the U.S. Open quarterfinals for the first time in his career.
The fifth-seeded Ruud, already the first Norwegian man to appear in the third and fourth rounds at the U.S. Open, must reach the final for at least the opportunity to become the top-ranked player in men’s tennis.
Moutet dropped to 0-8 lifetime against top-10 opponents but the Frenchman’s week at Flushing Meadows was already a success. He became the first lucky loser (a player who fails to make it out of qualifying but gets into the main draw when someone withdraws) to reach the fourth round at the U.S. Open.
The 23-year-old Ruud, Rafael Nadal, Carlos Alcaraz and current No. 1 Daniil Medvedev are the only players who can end the tournament as the world’s top-ranked player. Rudd is ranked No. 7 in the world.
Ruud, who played for the first time in Arthur Ashe Stadium, faces Matteo Berrettini in the quarterfinals.
3:05 p.m.
Matteo Berrettini of Italy advanced to the U.S. Open quarterfinals with a 3-6, 7-6 (2), 6-3, 4-6, 6-2 win over Alejandro Davidovich Fokina of Spain.
Davidovich Fokina had little left in the fifth set when he appeared to suffer an injury with the match tied 2-2. He went down in a heap after a hard split returning a ball along the baseline. He was on his knees and pounded the ground, grimacing as he eventually made his way to the bench. A trainer rubbed ice on Davidovich Fokina’s left knee and leg during every break the rest of the way.
Berrettini, the 2021 Wimbledon runner-up, reached the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam tournament for the fifth straight time. He dropped out of Wimbledon in June because he tested positive for COVID-19.
Berrettini labored through most of the match but used 18 aces and six winning break points to advance.
noon
It’s time for the biggest match yet in the men’s U.S. Open draw.
Defending champion and No. 1 seed Daniil Medvedev plays 23rd-seeded Nick Kyrgios in an Arthur Ashe Stadium showdown where the winner should be the heavy favorite to reach the final.
The 27-year-old Kyrgios is 3-1 overall against Medvedev. Though he has a career-high ranking of No. 13, Kyrgios is 14-11 against players currently ranked in the top 5.
Medvedev, who has made at least the semifinals in each of the last three U.S. Opens, is trying to became the first repeat champion since Roger Federer won five straight from 2004 to 2008. Kyrgios won the most recent match between the two, which came in Montreal.
Medvedev is the only player in the top half of the draw who has not lost a set. No man has won a U.S. Open title without losing a set in the Open era, which began in 1968.
The big match on the women’s side comes during the afternoon at Ashe when No. 12 seed Coco Gauff plays Shuai Zhang. Gauff, a French Open finalist this year, is trying to reach the quarterfinals at the U.S. Open for the first time in her career. 
More AP coverage of U.S. Open tennis: https://apnews.com/hub/us-open-tennis-championships and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports 
