Richard Sharp says the BBC board will review any potential conflicts of interest he may have amid scrutiny over his links with Boris Johnson. 
Claims have emerged that the BBC chairman was involved in securing a loan of up to £800,000 for the then-PM. 
Mr Sharp said he had not been involved in making a loan, a guarantee or arranging any financing. 
In a statement, he apologised to staff, calling the row "a distraction for the organisation, which I regret".
He said he had never hidden his longstanding relationship with the former PM and insisted he had been appointed fairly.
According to The Sunday Times, Mr Sharp was involved in discussions about a loan worth up to £800,000 for Mr Johnson in late 2020. 
Mr Sharp - a former Goldman Sachs banker - was announced as the government's choice for the new BBC chairman in January 2021.
The government's choice is ultimately decided by the prime minister, on the advice of the culture secretary, who is in turn advised by a panel.
Mr Sharp told BBC staff in an email on Monday: "I believe firmly that I was appointed on merit, which the Cabinet Office have also confirmed".
He said his personal interests would be reviewed by the BBC Board's nominations committee "when it next meets", without giving a timeline.
He also committed to having the findings of the review published "in the interest of transparency". 
Mr Sharp confirmed that he introduced Sam Blyth, who he described as an "old friend" that also happened to be a distant cousin of the then-PM, to Simon Case, the Cabinet Secretary.
He said Mr Blyth had offered to support Mr Johnson "having become aware of the financial pressures" on him and asked for advice on how to do so within the rules.
Mr Sharp's statement confirmed he met with Cabinet Secretary Simon Case to discuss Mr Blyth and "reminded" the official that he had applied for the BBC role. 
He said: "We both agreed that to avoid any conflict that I should have nothing further to do with the matter."
The BBC chairman added: "Since that meeting I have had no involvement whatsoever with any process."
Mr Johnson described claims of any impropriety as "a load of complete nonsense". 
He told Sky News on Monday: "Let me just tell you, Richard Sharp is a good and wise man but he knows absolutely nothing about my personal finances - I can tell you that for 100% ding dang sure.
"This is just another example of the BBC disappearing up its own fundament."
Downing Street has rejected allegations of "cronyism" and Prime Minister Rishi Sunak defended the BBC appointment process as "rigorous" and "transparent". 
Mr Sharp and Mr Sunak worked together at one stage during their time at Goldman Sachs investment bank. 
According  to the BBC's Amol Rajan, Mr Sharp once described Mr Sunak to a friend as the best young financial analyst he had seen.
Mr Sharp was an unpaid adviser on the government's business loan scheme during the pandemic.
He was also an economic adviser to Mr Johnson during his time as London mayor. 
Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said there were "clearly serious questions to answer" on the loan row and said "we need to get to the bottom of this as quickly as possible".
Mr Sharp sits on the BBC's nominations committee alongside four other members, including director-general Tim Davie.
It is unclear when it is due to sit next - BBC rules say it "meets as required to deal with appointment issues".
