Inside a Teton County courtroom on Tuesday, 20-year-old Claire Andrews came face to face with the man she says raped her.
“That was the first time I’d seen him in almost three years,” Andrews told the News&Guide after the sentencing. “Being in the same room ... I just started crying.”
With a courtroom packed with her family and friends Andrews cried and hugged her loved ones after 9th District Judge Timothy Day sentenced Jamison David Daniel, 20, to five years of supervised probation.
“At least with a probation sentence he’s going to have to realize what he’s done and think about his actions,” Andrews said.
It’s not jail, which Andrews said she would have preferred, but it’s still a guilty plea.
“I haven’t had any closure until now,” she said. “It’s been a rough road, but now I’m going to be moving on.”
Daniel was sentenced after pleading guilty in August to third-degree sex assault.
Daniel, a Jackson Hole native and a current Washington resident, didn’t make a statement in court. His attorney, Dick Mulligan, spoke on his behalf until Judge Timothy Day stopped him.
“Ms. Andrews was overheard at the party saying she wanted to have sex that evening no matter who it was,” Mulligan told the court.
“I don’t know if that’s relevant,” Day said. “I’d prefer you move on.”
The assault took place Dec. 31, 2014, or Jan. 1, 2015, at a New Year’s Eve party in Rafter J, police said.

        
    
“Someone I trusted violated me and denied it 47 times,” Andrews said.
According to court records, Daniel and Andrews were at the party with several other people.
“After that night my life changed,” Andrews told the court, reading from her written statement.
Andrews had too much to drink and passed out in a guest room at the host’s house, police said.
“When I see someone drunk and passed out my first instinct is to take care of them,” Andrews said. “For Jamison Daniel his instinct was to have sex with the person who was drunk and passed out. That person was me.”
Andrews reported the incident on Jan. 6, 2015, after breaking the news to her family.
“I was afraid to tell people because I had heard what the justice system does to girls like me,” she said.
Investigators collected pants she put on the day after the rape as evidence because the outfit she wore to the party had already been washed, a police affidavit states.
Andrews went off to college soon after the assault, despite wanting to take a year off.
“I cried every day and felt terribly for my roommate and friends who had to take care of me,” she said. “Then the DNA results came back and there was a match. I cried tears of joy.”
When Daniel, 17 at the time of the crime, was questioned by police he denied having sex with Andrews. He told them he only took her a glass of water, but later changed his story.
“Despite lying to detectives and friends,” Mulligan told the court, “he admitted to sexual contact.”
David Daniel, Jamison’s father, said his son and Andrews had consensual sex that night.
“We feel we are the victims of a mob society so hell-bent on a rape prosecution that no matter the facts, must happen,” David Daniel wrote in a statement that he had planned to read in court until Judge Day stopped him.
In a copy of the statement obtained by the News&Guide, the elder Daniel said Andrews changed her story.
“We’ve never had a chance to tell Jamison’s side until now,” Daniel wrote. “This is in no way to shame Ms. Andrews but as a father how can I sit back silently and not present facts provided in affidavits and statements provided by other people who attended the party?”
Daniel claims witnesses said Andrews was soliciting sex at the party.
“This is by no means to embarrass or humiliate Ms. Andrews, but rape is a very serious accusation, and I feel that both sides of the story should be told,” Daniel said. “Ms. Andrews was not unconscious and knew fully what they were doing.”
‘Full of wonder’
In the statement Daniel described his son as “shy, kind and full of wonder.”
“Jamison never got in trouble in school,” his dad said. “He’s never had a speeding or even parking ticket.”
Andrews said she was unconscious when Daniel pulled her dress down and had sex with her. Her family agreed to the plea deal because they didn’t want to delay justice further with a jury trial, she said.
“I’m not going to be the last girl to go through this,” Andrews said. “I wish I was. My heart hurts so bad for them. The justice system drags you through the mud repeatedly, and it’s really painful, but just the fact that I might be helping this not happen to one more girl makes it worth it.”
Andrews and her mother, Barbara, hope telling the story of their tragedy will help other victims.
“Claire is my hero,” Barbara Andrews said. “She has been wounded, but she is not broken. I pray that other women will come forward to begin healing.”
Because Daniel is young and lacks a criminal history, a presentence investigation recommended supervised probation.
“The plea agreement I’m being asked to accept, from one point of view, could look like it’s way too lenient,” Judge Day said. “It doesn’t call for incarceration and gives Mr. Daniel the opportunity to avoid a felony conviction.”
A low risk to reoffend
Day said the presentence investigation concluded Daniel was at a low risk to reoffend. Mulligan called it an isolated incident.
“If there were miscalculations and he’s unable to live up to his plea agreement there will be heavy consequences for him,” Day said.
Judge Day instructed Daniel to follow court orders and do some soul searching. He also instructed him to complete education in the “yes means yes initiative.”
“I think after three long, difficult years it is a fair and just sentence for everybody involved,” Teton County Deputy Prosecutor Becket Hinckley said.
Daniel made an Alford plea, a guilty plea by a defendant who proclaims he is innocent. If he completes five years of probation without violation, a felony conviction won’t appear on his record. He has the right to appeal his conviction within 30 days of the filing of the sentence.
