Two councillors have resigned from Labour over Sir Keir Starmer's position on the Israel Gaza war. Shaista Aziz and Amar Latif, who both sit on Oxford City Council, said they left because the Labour leader is "seeming to condone the collective punishment against the people of Gaza".Council leader Susan Brown said she was "saddened" by their decision, but that Israel had a right to defend itself.Sir Keir said Hamas "bears responsibility". Speaking to LBC, he said Israel "does have that right" to withhold power and water from Palestinian civilians, though "everything should be done within international law".In their resignation statement, the councillors said they "stand in solidarity with the people of Israel and Palestine and call for an end to violence and the humanitarian crisis".
They said following the "horrific killings and atrocities" on both sides, and the "deep devastation, grief and fear being felt by our communities in our city and beyond" they were "deeply disappointed and alarmed" by Sir Keir's comments. They said it was "in direct contravention of international law", and that they had sought "urgent clarification" from national and local leadership but had not heard back.As a result they had "made a conscious decision to immediately resign the whip and leave" the party, saying they were "appalled by the lack of humanity and regard for the rights of the Palestinian people".The councillors will continue to serve as independents.

In her statement on their decision, Ms Brown said: "Labour fully supports Israel's right to defend itself from the indefensible actions of Hamas, to rescue hostages and protect civilians in line with international law."We must distinguish Hamas terrorists from the Palestinian people. There must be humanitarian access to Gaza, for food, water, medicines and electricity."The Labour Party will continue to be strong and consistent advocates for justice, human rights and international law in this conflict, and to condemn the unacceptable use of violence against civilians."There will not be a just and lasting peace until both Israelis and Palestinians enjoy security, dignity and human rights."Oxford Labour Council stands in solidarity with the innocent civilians of Palestine and Israel. We will continue to support and defend the Oxford Jewish community and all those who have been affected by the tragic events in Israel and Gaza."
Follow BBC South on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk.
