A "severely frail and vulnerable" woman with dementia was given 24 hours' notice that she would be moved after her care home temporarily closed. Janine Hercock was informed by phone on 23 May that her mum Kath would be moved from Hazel Garth in Knottingley, West Yorkshire, the following day. Staff were also given no warning, the GMB union said, and residents had their belongings gathered into bin bags.Wakefield Council, which owns the home, said the closure was "temporary" and no jobs were at risk. 
Mrs Hercock said she was told by a social worker that Kath, 74, had no "behaviours" so was eligible to be moved the next afternoon. "No behaviours? My mother is in the advanced stages of dementia, she's severely frail, has no functional communication or any mobility," she told the BBC."She's locked in - she cannot feed herself."Mrs Hercock refused to allow her mum to be taken to another home "with no preparation or care plan" and threatened to contact police if she was taken without her consent.The 51-year-old also lodged an urgent adult safeguarding referral with the council."When I got to the home... the staff seemed to be in shock...it was like walking into a bomb site," said Mrs Hercock, who had to make the five-hour journey from Surrey."It felt like an emergency situation."
Mrs Hercock said the care at Hazel Garth had always been "absolutely phenomenal" and a "God send".But she was not prepared to accept that she had been given 24 hours to find a suitable home for her mum and has had to move her to Surrey.She said: "In the absence of any kind of plan or transition the only conclusion I came to is 'my mum needs to come to me'.  "She knows what's happening, she grabbed hold of my hand and mouthed the word 'home'." 
Mrs Hercock said the council provided transport and two of Kath's familiar carers for the journey to Surrey.But she was critical that the authority had not been able to provide answers about why the home had to be shut "with such urgency".The union said the property was in need of urgent upgrade works but the sudden closure showed a "stunning lack of respect" for residents.Wakefield Council said "alternative places" had been found for all six residents and it had made the decision to close to provide the "best level of safe care for residents". A spokesperson added: "This was due to a combination of the care needs of residents, the physical condition of the building, and staff availability. "Hazel Garth Care Home is not permanently closing and we remain committed to care provision on the site."Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
