STAMFORD-A Bridgeport man who allegedly robbed a man of his car at knife in Bridgeport point had an extra year tacked onto his three-year jail sentence for leading police on a wild chase into Norwalk in 2015.
Michael Rivera, 31, had the additional year added to his sentence by a Stamford judge during a sentencing hearing on Friday. Rivera, who was represented by public defender Howard Ehring, pleaded guilty to engaging police in pursuit, reckless endangerment and criminal mischief.
At the end of February, Rivera was sentenced to three years in jail and five years probation in Bridgeport for stealing the car after pleading guilty to charges of third-degree larceny, carrying a dangerous weapon and possession of a weapon in a motor vehicle.
Rivera said he did not remember the incident because he was high on angle dust at the time.
The chase began after he allegedly took a Honda Civic from a man at a Bridgeport gas station at 5:45 a.m. on Oct. 7, 2015. Bridgeport police initially chased Rivera, but state troopers in the area took over as the car headed south on the highway.
The Civic was spotted around Westport making erratic lane changes and driving at high speeds, according to police reports.
While approaching exit 14, the Honda pulled away at a high rate of speed and, as three state cruisers tried to box in the car, the driver twice struck one police car as he evaded the maneuver, police reports said.

        
    
As traffic increased in the area, another trooper decided to disable the Honda, and forced the car into the center divider, forcing it to a stop.
Rivera was pulled from the car and handcuffed. He was charged with two counts each of resisting arrest, reckless endangerment, first-degree assault, engaging police in pursuit and criminal mischief.
Rivera told police that at 2 a.m. he had been on Park Avenue, where he lives, smoking angel dust, a powerful hallucinogenic also known as PCP, according to police reports. He said he believed people were chasing him and asked some guy for his car.
[email protected]
