A medical charity accustomed to frontline war zones has begun treating men at a UK asylum centre.
Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) said its medics were working with asylum seekers living at the former military barracks in Wethersfield, Essex.
It said it was the first time it had "opened a project working with people seeking sanctuary in the UK". 
The Home Office said asylum seekers at Wethersfield already had access to medical support.
The charity, also known as Doctors without Borders, and the medical team Doctors of the World (DOTW) had set up outside the base and said asylum seekers "tell us their specific health needs are not being met for various reasons". 
It added: "The men we've spoken with have told us they feel isolated and alone, and that their mental health has worsened since they have arrived at the former military base."
Last month, the charity Care4Calais said it would take High Court legal action against the Home Office, over its use of the remote base as asylum accommodation.
MSF has, since 2016, also treated some of the thousands of people seeking asylum in large-scale containment sites on the Greek islands.
Dr Javid Abdelmoneim said: "Many of the men held in Wethersfield will likely have experienced violence, war, arbitrary detention and other trauma and will require tailored and specialised healthcare.
"We know from our work around the world that harsh deterrence policies, such as holding people seeking sanctuary in mass containment sites, is a recipe for disaster which ultimately costs lives.
Simon Tyler, executive director of DOTW, said: "These camps are not a sustainable solution for anyone there stuck in limbo, or the local communities. 
"But an efficient and safe process can exist to allow people to rebuild, be active, and look after their own health."
He added that MSF and DOTW would continue to help men at the Essex asylum centre.
A Home Office spokesperson said: "We continue to meet our legal obligations and provide accommodation for asylum seekers who would otherwise be destitute.
"The accommodation provided meets all relevant housing and health and safety standards. 
"All residents at Wethersfield have access to medical support, including mental health support, and a 24/7 helpline provided by Migrant Help is available to raise any concerns."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
