A Surrey farmer says rural crime in the county has become more "intense" over recent months.Andrew Compton, who is the chair of the National Farmers Union's Redhill branch, says he has experienced livestock worrying, fly-tipping, a vehicle being stolen and electric fence equipment being taken.He said there needed to be "a root-and-branch shake up" of Surrey Police's approach to rural crime.All four candidates vying to be Surrey's next police and crime commissioner (PCC) have spoken about rural crime ahead of the election on 2 May. 
Mr Compton said without people being prosecuted for crimes there would still be "this apathy running through the rural community about reporting it".Surrey Police had pledged to visit every National Farmer's Union member in the county to "provide reassurance and a visible policing presence".Rural crime inspector for Surrey Police Darren Benge said: “We are determined to find solutions that will make Surrey a safer place for our rural community to live and work."He said: “We are using these visits as an opportunity to connect with farmers and landowners and establish the issues that are causing them greatest concern so we can prioritise these."
Surrey's current PCC, Conservative Lisa Townsend, said Surrey Police had made "huge strides" to be able to work closer with the rural community.She explained that there were more officers in Surrey now than ever before in the force's history - including more rural officers than when she started in the role in 2021.Ms Townsend said: “They're a really important and integral part of our community and they need to be treated as such."
Paul Kennedy, Liberal Democrats' PCC candidate, says he "absolutely” thinks rural crime is not being prioritised in the rural area of Mole Valley.He said: "The current funding formula discriminates against rural areas. It tends to focus on urban areas, and of course rural crime is underreported and that’s part of the unfairness.”The Mole Valley councillor said a "proper rural strategy" was needed to get people reporting more.
Independent candidate Alex Coley said he wanted to see more partnership-working to tackle rural crime.He said: "Surrey Police is a multi-million-pound organisation with a part to play in that.”Mr Coley said he wanted police to "catch people and arrest them" as a deterrent. 
Kate Chinn, Labour's PCC candidate, agreed that rural crime was a "huge problem". She explained that she would want to bring in and fund more specialist rural teams who would work with the farming community.Ms Chinn said: "They [officers] need to be out in the communities talking to farmers."
Follow BBC Surrey on Facebook, and on X. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250.
