HS2's tunnelling machine has broken through to Old Oak Common station, with engineers saying it means the scheme is one step closer to reaching Euston.
On Tuesday the tunnel boring machine (TBM) finished its near-kilometre long journey into the station box.
The creation of the logistics tunnel is seen as a key milestone for the high-speed line into London.
Nevertheless, discussions to fund the extension of the line to Euston are still ongoing.
Speaking about the tunnel breakthrough, Malcolm Codling of HS2 Ltd said: "[This] takes us closer along our journey to bring HS2 into central London at Euston. 
"The logistics tunnel is a key part of our plans to enable us to construct the Euston Tunnel and will reduce the construction impact on the local community."
The 853m-long tunnel, which runs from the Atlas Road logistics hub in North Acton, is being built to service the construction of the line eastwards towards Euston. 
It will allow materials required for the Euston Tunnel to be transported to the site without clogging up local roads or disrupting work going on elsewhere at Old Oak Common station.
Over the past nine months, the machine has removed 62,000 tonnes of London Clay and installed 535 concrete rings. 
By Tom Edwards, BBC London transport correspondent 
Another step forward for the HS2 - but there is still an elephant in the room. 
Who will pay for the Euston link and the station there where work is currently paused?
The government is currently in talks to try and get private developers to pay for it. 
Engineers at Old Oak Common have been cracking on and had to build a Euston supply tunnel anyway. 
They will then bury two massive tunnel boring machines pointed at Euston and wait for the politicians to sort out the money. 
They can't wait as other works above the HS2 station involving the Great Western need completing. Engineers say it's crucial HS2 makes it to Euston but nothing is straightforward with this project. 
James Richardson, managing director of HS2's London tunnels contractor Skanska Costain STRABAG joint venture, said: "The completion of the Atlas Road logistics tunnel paves the way for us to deliver our London tunnels programme to Euston. 
"The tunnel supports our continued commitment to reducing cost and carbon by removing one million lorry journeys off London's roads."
Alternative funding arrangements for the delivery of Euston station are being considered after the government's Network North announcement in October.
Work is continuing with the preparations and design of the railway between Old Oak Common and Euston.
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
