A university is celebrating the graduation of its first ever cohort of doctors, with more than half (55%) taking roles in its region.The University of Sunderland's school of medicine was set up in 2019 to tackle the North East's shortage of doctors and raise the number of under-represented groups in the profession.Of those graduating this year, 41% were from the North East and 48% were from backgrounds traditionally underrepresented in the field, the university said.Graduate Laura Giles, from Sunderland, will continue her training at the city's hospital and said she looked forward to giving back to the community.
The 24-year-old said: "I just love the fact that I can work in the hospital that I was born in and give something back to the community I was brought up in.
She added it was "really nice to be able to relate to the patients". "I chat to them about the football club, the history," she said. "I think the patients appreciate it too. They talk to me about what life is like in Sunderland. It’s an incredible experience to have."Sunderland was one of five places in England chosen by the government to open new medical schools back in 2018.Since then, it has opened an Anatomy Centre in early 2022 and was granted official status by the General Medical Council (GMC) this year.
Prof Scott Wilkes, head of the university’s school of medicine, said he was "immensely proud" of the graduates. "They have been wonderful," he said."They have helped us learn, given us great feedback which has turned this medical school I believe into one of the best in the UK."
Following in Dr Giles' medical footsteps is her younger sister Lucy, who is currently in her third year studying MBChB Medicine at Sunderland.The sisters, who are both former Southmoor Academy Sixth Form students, do not have a medical background."It’s just an incredible experience because I feel like people can look up to us and say, you know what, if they can do it so can we," Dr Giles said."No matter what background you come from, it doesn’t dictate whether you can be a doctor or not. "If you’ve got the determination and you work hard, you can become a doctor."
Follow BBC Sunderland on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk.
