The owner of a manure clearance company that shocked Newmarket racehorse trainers by announcing his retirement has found a buyer for his business.
Alwyn Moss, 75, from West Row, Suffolk, runs one of two companies that dispose of horse manure for the industry. 
He decided to retire after being unable to find a purchaser, but "the phone started ringing" with offers once the Racing Post broke the news. 
"It's a relief to know that it's going forward," he said.
Mr Moss planned to retire on 29 September, citing problems in finding drivers able to manoeuvre his five lorries around expensive, highly-strung racehorses.
"But the main reason for stopping is the Thetford EPR power station, which takes most of our material, is 27 years old and breaking down very regularly," he said.
"So we had to make sure there was an alternative."
Mr Moss has agreed a sale with Envar Ltd, which will take over the existing operations immediately.
Envar's head of commercial Martin Graves said: "We are pleased to offer the service back to the community and look forward to working together in the years to come."
Mr Moss said he was particularly pleased not to have left clients with one or two horses "in a muddle".
"There are many hundreds of livery yards and private stables in East Anglia and they rely on companies like mine," he said. 
Newmarket is home to about 80 racehorse trainers and at peak season about 3,000 horses are in training, according to the Jockey Club.
Trainer Gay Kelleway, from Queen Alexandra Stables, Exning, said she had had "sleepless nights over this since I heard the news".
"I was really stressed - I live tucked away in a little village and I respect my neighbours and need to have the [manure] pit emptied on a regular basis and not encourage rats," she said.
The former jockey called on the British Horseracing Authority (BHA) to help find a more sustainable solution to getting rid of the horse muck.
Ms Kelleway said: "Fifteen years ago, we sat in a meeting with trainers to talk about how to make its removal biodegradable and nothing was put forward. 
"I'm very much into the environment and recycling and we need to be planet-conscious."
Thetford EPR's owner Melton Renewable Energy and the BHA have also been approached for comment. 
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
