PARIS (AP) — Novak Djokovic stopped Rafael Nadal’s bid for a 14th French Open title and handed the King of Clay just his third loss in 108 matches at the tournament by coming back to win their thriller of a semifinal 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (4), 6-2 on Friday night. 
The match ended with a bit of a whimper: Djokovic grabbed the last six games.
So Djokovic will be seeking his second trophy at Roland Garros and a 19th major championship overall when he plays in Sunday’s final. The top-seeded Djokovic’s opponent will be fifth-seeded Stefanos Tsitsipas. 
NEW YORK (AP) — Jacob deGrom was pulled from a do-it-all gem with right flexor tendinitis, a troubling diagnosis for the New York Mets that clouded a 3-2 victory over the San Diego Padres on Friday night.
DeGrom (6-2) faced the minimum over six innings and ripped a two-run single, giving him five RBIs this season — compared to four earned runs allowed. The two-time NL Cy Young Award winner’s 0.56 ERA is the lowest ever by a pitcher through 10 starts, just ahead of Juan Marichal’s 0.59 in 1966.
DeGrom left after 80 pitches and extending his scoreless streak to 22 innings.
WASHINGTON (AP) — Washington ace Max Scherzer left after just 12 pitches with a groin injury, Buster Posey homered and the San Francisco Giants beat the Nationals 1-0 on Friday night on Anthony DeSclafani’s career-best two-hitter.
Scherzer, a 36-year-old right-hander with three Cy Young Awards, retired leadoff batter LaMonte Wade Jr. on a fly ball to left and had a 3-2 count on Brandon Belt when he stretched his body. Scherzer took one warmup toss before exiting. 

        
    
PHOENIX (AP) — Arizona Diamondbacks general manager Mike Hazen is taking a physical leave of absence from the team while his wife Nicole is dealing with brain cancer.
Hazen said Friday that he will continue to consult regularly with assistant general manager Amiel Sawdaye, who will take over day-to-day baseball operations. 
Hazen’s wife Nicole has been battling a brain tumor for more than a year. The couple has four sons. 
TORONTO (AP) — The shoulder injury that ended Toronto forward Pascal Siakam’s season early will likely force him to miss the start of next season as well.
The Raptors said Friday that Siakam had surgery last week to repair a torn labrum in his left shoulder, with an anticipated recovery and rehabilitation time of five months. That timetable, if precise, would mean Siakam can play again in early November — about two weeks after the NBA plans to open the 2021-22 season.
BOSTON (AP) — Boston Bruins goalie Tuukka Rask will have surgery to repair a previously undisclosed torn labrum in his hip, he said Friday, two days after the team was eliminated from the playoffs by the New York Islanders. 
Rask, who is eligible to become a free agent, said he hopes to re-sign with the Bruins and be ready to return in January or February.
The 34-year-old Rask played in only 24 games during the regular season as the team managed his workload. He missed three weeks in March and April but said that was because his back seized up when he was compensating for the hip injury.
TEMPE, Ariz. (AP) — Arizona State has hired alum and former big league player Willie Bloomquist as its next baseball coach.
Athletic director Ray Anderson announced Bloomquist’s hiring Friday. He replaces Tracy Smith, who was fired earlier this week after seven seasons.
Bloomquist played at Arizona State from 1997-99 and still has the fourth-highest batting average in school history at .394. He was a two-time All-American before being drafted in the third round of the 1999 Major League Baseball draft by the Seattle Mariners.
Bloomquist played 14 big league seasons with Kansas City, Arizona and over two stints with Seattle. 
More AP sports: https://apnews.com/hub/apf-sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports 
