PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Tyrese Maxey scored 33 points, including a driving layup with 26.4 seconds left in overtime that put Philadelphia ahead for good, and the 76ers beat the Memphis Grizzlies 122-119 without Joel Embiid on Monday night.
Tobias Harris added 31 points and Andre Drummond had 16 points and 23 rebounds for Philadelphia, which won its fifth game in a row and 15th in the last 18. The 76ers improved to 4-8 without Embiid, who was rested.
Ja Morant scored 37 points and Desmond Bane had a career-high 34 for Memphis. Morant reached 30 points for the seventh straight game.
HOUSTON (AP) — Stephen Curry scored 21 of his 40 points in the fourth quarter to lead Golden State over Houston. 
It was the sixth consecutive win for the Warriors, while Houston extended its skid at home to 11 straight games. 
Curry made seven 3-pointers, four in the fourth quarter, and had nine assists and five rebounds. His 21 fourth-quarter points were the most of his career. 
Andrew Wiggins added 23 points for the Warriors and Klay Thompson had 14. 
The Rockets, who lost their fourth straight game overall, were led by Christian Wood’s 24 points and 13 rebounds. 
BOSTON (AP) — Jaylen Brown scored 29 points, Jayson Tatum had 20 points and 12 rebounds, and Boston rolled past Miami. 
Marcus Smart added 16 points and seven assists as the Celtics won for the fourth time in five games. 
It was Brown’s fourth consecutive game with at least 25 points, and Tatum has scored 20 or more in his last six. 

        
    
Miami has lost two straight and struggled mightily without several key players in the opener of a six-game road trip: Jimmy Butler (toe), P.J. Tucker (knee) and point guard Kyle Lowry, who missed his eighth game in a row for personal reasons.
In their absence, Max Strus finished with 27 points. The Heat were coming off a triple-overtime loss to Toronto on Saturday.
CLEVELAND (AP) — Reserve guard Brandon Goodwin matched his career high with 21 points, Jarrett Allen added 16 and Cleveland shook off an ugly road loss by rallying to beat New Orleans.
The Cavaliers, who played poorly in a 10-point defeat at Detroit the day before, were without starting point guard Darius Garland due to a sore lower back. Kevin Love added 15 points and 11 rebounds, and Cedi Osman had a career-best 12 assists for Cleveland, which trailed by nine in the fourth quarter.
Devonte’ Graham scored 20 points and Jaxson Hayes had 19 for the Pelicans, who lost their fourth straight. New Orleans was also down a major piece as forward Brandon Ingram, who leads the Pelicans in points and assists, missed his fifth game in a row with an ankle injury.
Jonas Valanciunas could have tied it in the final second, but he missed on a drive that was tightly contested by several Cavs players. 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) — Rookie forward Isaiah Jackson had 26 points and 10 rebounds for his first career double-double, leading Indiana past Los Angeles.
Both totals were season highs for Jackson, a first-round draft pick out of Kentucky. Duane Washington Jr. added 16 points and made all four of his 3-pointers in the fourth quarter.
The short-handed Pacers won for the second time in six games and Rick Carlisle became the second coach in the franchise’s NBA history to win 200 games. Frank Vogel won 250 during a five-season tenure with the team.
The Clippers were led by Amir Coffey with 27 points and Reggie Jackson with 21. Los Angeles went 4-4 on its road trip but had a five-game winning streak against Indiana snapped.
Injured All-Stars Paul George and Kawhi Leonard were out again for the Clippers, and the Pacers played without two-time All-Star Domantas Sabonis, who entered the COVID-19 health and safety protocols.
ATLANTA (AP) — Gary Trent Jr. scored 31 points, Pascal Siakam added 23 and Toronto ended Atlanta’s seven-game winning streak.
Trent, who has scored at least 30 points in four straight games, hit three 3-pointers in the closing minutes of the third quarter, including a buzzer-beater, and connected again early in the fourth to put the Raptors up 85-77. 
Fred VanVleet, who had 16 points, made consecutive 3s to push the lead to nine.
The Hawks played without All-Star guard Trae Young, who was scratched with a bruised right shoulder. Kevin Huerter scored 26 points to lead Atlanta. 
OKLAHOMA CITY (AP) — Lu Dort scored 18 points and Oklahoma City defeated Portland to snap a seven-game losing streak.
Josh Giddey added 14 points and 12 rebounds for the short-handed Thunder. Oklahoma City’s scoring leader, Shai Gilgeous-Alexander, is out until after the All-Star break with a sprained right ankle sustained last Friday against Indiana. 
CJ McCollum scored 21 points and Norman Powell added 18 for the Trail Blazers, who have lost four of five. 
NEW YORK (AP) — Alec Burks had 21 points off the bench, Evan Fournier also scored 21 and New York routed skidding Sacramento to stop a three-game slide.
Julius Randle added 17 points and nine rebounds for the Knicks, who won for the second time in eight games.
Tyrese Haliburton had 21 points and eight assists for the Kings, who have lost seven straight overall and 12 in a row on the road. 
Sacramento’s last road victory was Dec. 1 at the Los Angeles Clippers. 
More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/nba and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
