A barber shop that gives free haircuts to the homeless has launched.
Sylvester Okoli, owner of Route 8 Barbers, said part of the business's purpose was to give back to the community.
The new shop, which has opened at Botley Retail Park in Oxford, follows premises in Bristol and Swindon.
Mr Okoli, 36, told the BBC: "We were actually cutting more homeless people's hair than customers at one point."
The barber has previously worked with The Porch Day Centre in Oxford, which offers services to people in the city who have experienced rough sleeping, required hostel accommodation, or are in supported housing.
The centre has previously said how the company did more than just cut hair.
"They increase self esteem, show care and consideration and above all kindness - a kindness that develops self belief and gives hope," it said.
The team would typically provide up to 25 haircuts each visit.
But Mr Okoli said people can also "come to the shop and just explain their circumstances and we're happy to help them with haircuts". 
Mr Okoli, who has been a barber for about seven years, said: "It feels good to know that this service is not just limited to people who can afford it. 
"The outcome makes me feel good, but at the end of the day it's not about me, it's about them. 
"You can always see that confidence, that's what it's all about. They walk out feeling good.
"What's important is doing what's right, and what's right is making sure someone can use what they have learned not just to benefit themselves, but to benefit others in the community.
"So if there's a way we can give some hope to individuals, and they can feel they're not left out and alone, it makes them see there are people that care."
Route 8 Barbers' other community ventures include training up young people in hairdressing to keep them from becoming involved in crime.
It also carries out hospital visits, prison visits, and home visits to the long term sick or elderly. 
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk.
