Sikhs in London have gathered together to mark Vaisakhi, a celebration of their faith and identity.
At Southall's Sri Guru Singh Sabha Gurdwara on Saturday, people gathered to pray, cook, eat and reflect together.
One family said the celebrations were a reminder of "how we should live our lives".
Vaisakhi, the highlight of the Sikh year, celebrates the founding of the Sikh community, the Khalsa, in 1699.
Khalsa is a collective of committed Sikhs who are the leaders and protectors of the Sikhs and was created to fight oppression and uphold freedom.
Taran Kaur, a mother of three, took her children to an arts and crafts workshop held at the Gurdwara.
She said: "Having activities like this helped my children to learn what it means when the Khalsa was formed on this day. 
"It's the best way to learn and it was a lot of fun too."
Michael McKenna comes every year to the Gurdwara to celebrate Vaisakhi with his family. 
"It's something I feel proud to be part of as an honorary Sikh, there's a vibrant sense of community. It's wonderful to see everyone together. 
"The atmosphere is full of energy; families and people giving food and sharing.
"The weather has been great too - I'm feeling grateful, thank you to the Sikh community for always having your doors open to anyone who comes," he added.
Onkar Singh began prayers at the Gurdwara at 03:30 BST. 
"I wanted to be here when prayers began in the early hours of the morning followed by meditation as it's really peaceful," he said.
"Vaisakhi is important to me as it's about sacrifice, compassion and service to others. I love doing sewa (selfless service), it's fulfilling."
Meghna Chakravarty, from Harrow, is Hindu and joined friends to take part in the festival. It was the first time she has done sewa.
"Coming here today and feeling part of the community is beautiful as I am the newbie in the kitchen," she said.
"It's spiritually satisfying and sewa connects you to people in a way that you wouldn't know; we are one and yet we don't know each other, we are doing sewa for others. 
"The community spirit is another level here, even on the streets outside it's buzzing, and I am not part of the religion but I feel I am as I don't feel any different. Coming to the Gurdwara reminds me of home in India."
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
