A charity founded by a mother before her death from breast cancer will be her "lasting legacy", her husband said.Darina Gray, 31, from Bedford, started Gray to Sunny Day after she was diagnosed with stage four metastatic breast cancer as a way for patients to create memories and enjoy quality time with their loved ones.Her husband Jonny said the cause gave Mrs Gray "something to keep going" during her treatment."Darina was so strong-willed, she never gave up," he said.
Mrs Gray received her first cancer diagnosis in April 2019, eight weeks after the birth of their second child, Cobi. In 2022, she learned her cancer had spread and her illness was terminal. She died in April 2023.
"When she got cancer for the second time she wanted to do something to help other people, that's the type of person she was, it gave her something to keep going," Mr Gray said."She wanted to leave a lasting legacy, so one day her boys could have a charity to run."She said: 'When I pass I don't want people to say cancer beat me because cancer will die when I die'. That was her mentality, that it wouldn't beat her," he added."Even though she was so poorly, with chemotherapy, it was a great distraction communicating with people and sending them gifts."
So far the Bedford-based charity has raised more than £25,000, supported more than 300 families, with the money going towards "creating memories, like football matches, trips to the theatre, things they can't afford," Mr Gray said.Nicola David, one of the charity trustees, said: "She was the kindest person you could ever come across, that was her whole demeanour."She went to sleep one night and woke up the next morning and informed us about the charity. It was true Darina. Within 24 hours we were up and running."We're going to keep Darina's wishes alive and help as many people as we can."The charity's next fundraising event is a Golf Day in Pavenham, near Bedford, on 13 September.
Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
