Blenheim Palace has reported a boost in visitors following the recent European Political Community (EPC) summit.Leaders from nearly 50 European nations gathered at the Oxfordshire stately home for a summit hosted by UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer on 18 July.Although some disruption was caused with police escorting motorcades and roads closed, it is estimated the event injected £30m into the local economy.Staff at Blenheim Palace said visits to their website were up 45% following the high profile visits, with many views from abroad. The weekend after the summit saw an immediate rise in visitors.
Dominic Hare, chief executive of the palace, said: “It’s remarkable to think we hosted an event attended by a quarter of the world’s leaders. "The summit was without doubt the most most significant event that has ever taken place at Blenheim Palace.“It is wonderful to see such an instant impact on the number of visitors, especially as the income we receive from ticket sales enables vital restoration and conservation.“We are confident that the ‘halo-effect’ of hosting this globally historic event will benefit the local economy for many months to come.”
Home to the Dukes of Marlborough since 1705, the palace was designated a site of World Heritage by UNESCO in 1987. It was the birthplace of Sir Winston Churchill and is set in 2,000 acres of parkland designed by Capability Brown.More than 1,000 media staff also came to the summit, with coverage beamed around the world. They worked in a specially constructed tent village.Fruit and vegetables from the palace gardens were served to leaders including Presidents Macron of France and Erdogan of Turkey, along with President Zelenskyy of Ukraine. Most of the menu came from Oxfordshire, with lamb, honey and natural mineral water coming from the estate.Ice creams were provided for journalists and diplomats from a mobile stand run by nearby Alfonso Gelateria.The cost of the European Political Community Event is still being assessed by the Foreign Office. Just the cost of policing is likely to exceed the £6m spent by Thames Valley Police for a previous visit by US President Donald Trump.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk. 
