Armagh GAA fans are coming to terms with witnessing their team’s first All-Ireland success in two decades.On Sunday evening, thousands gathered at an event in County Louth to celebrate after a dramatic final against Galway at Croke Park.They claimed the Sam Maguire cup by a point, winning 1-11 to 0-13.Joe Kernan, who managed Armagh to their last success in 2002, said it was hard to believe they had repeated the feat.A homecoming party is planned for Monday evening.
Kernan told BBC News NI he was "probably more nervous yesterday" than he ever was as a manager."When you’re a manager, you’re totally focussed on the job at hand," he told Good Morning Ulster on Monday."But yesterday, I was one of the supporters. You were just so worried in case something would go wrong.He added the match was not good for the blood pressure but left everyone wearing orange and white in "fantastic form".The final in Dublin was one of the most talked about in years, with both Armagh and Galway seeking to avenge many years without a senior men's All-Ireland title. About 82,300 fans packed into Croke Park, with demand for tickets far outstripping supply in Armagh.Many others, who were unable to get tickets, gathered in Gaelic clubs and hotels across the county to see their team bring home the cup.
Monday's ticketed homecoming event will take place at the Armagh Athletic Grounds.Gates open at 15:30 BST and the team is due to arrive about 17:00.
Speaking about current Armagh manager, Kieran McGeeney, Joe Kernan said he "deserves every reward". McGeeney is likely a "very happy man" but he joked he "might be tired this morning"."They’ve done something only one other team in Armagh done and that was led by Kieran (who was 2002 captain)," Kernan continued, adding the lives of the team will have changed."They will stand out in a crowd."He said they will be among a "very elite" group of people who have won an All-Ireland title.
Fans did not just from County Armagh for Sunday's final.Gillian Kelly, McGeeney's cousin, travelled from New York.She said she was "so proud of him"."He was captain of Armagh in 02 and I was only eight at the time. But it was amazing to see that. And now, 22 years later seeing him lift the cup again as a manager was insane.""Everyone’s so proud of him. Kieran has such dedication to Armagh."As a cousin, it’s so inspiring," she continued.
Ms Kelly said that when Armagh beat Kerry in the semi-final, she booked flights from New York to go back home and see the match.And when asked about celebrations last night, she said: "I haven’t slept much. I drove down to Dublin and back up. The buzz was insane even driving back up the road, everyone singing."The craic was 90."Ms Kelly even painted her car in Armagh colours, something she said was popular among the fans. She laughed about how she was "getting loads of beeps at the toll".
Marianne Kennedy, who works as a toll operator on the M1, said she saw many Armagh fans on their way to Dublin."It was a fantastic atmosphere, absolutely electric," she said.She described how there was "a lot of beeping, a lot of shouting but everybody was in great form. It was very busy.""When everybody is in such good form. It’s always good craic," Ms Kennedy added.
