Campers, littering, aggressive dogs and parking are causing problems at a beauty spot.With Llyn Tegid, Wales' largest natural lake, in Eryri, also known as Snowdonia, a popular location for water sports, local people expect a lot of visitors over the coming months.But some described rubbish being left behind and dogs killing farmers' lambs as a result of the increases in tourism.Eryri National Park Authority said: "We are aware of the issues concerning fly-camping around Llyn Tegid, and we sympathise wholeheartedly with the local community's frustration regarding the situation."
Geraint Roberts, a local farmer said tourism in the past four years had doubled."They come here for the day mostly in Llangower here... it's the attitude of a lot of them... rubbish and things they leave behind," he said."Most people are respectful but there are some people that don't care."Mr Roberts recently had trouble with a dog on his land, something he said happened more often during the tourist season."I heard a dog barking up on the mountain and I went to get my quad bike, went up there as quick as I could."The lamb was dying when I got there, had been ripped apart, their mother was lying beside them and no sign of the dog at all."
It was not the first time Mr Roberts has had trouble with dogs on his land."We lost three rams down by the lake, one was run until it had died of exhaustion. Two were chased into the lake and they died in the lake," he said."It's distressing... I've asked a few people to put their dogs on leads and one person told me that because they were on a public footpath that they didn't have to."Mr Roberts said locals wanted to be able to enjoy the area as much as everyone else."It's there for everybody, but when it gets full... there's no place for the locals to go."Although Mr Roberts is fed up of the situation, he says tourism is essential for the area. "Tourism is very important, it's the only big income that this area has got."But tourism, farming and locals have to work together. It's a priority of everyone in this area to try to get everything to work together.
And the opinion on the high street in Bala was similar, with many wanting to see the problem tackled.Dei John, who lives locally, said: "The biggest problem we have is the way they park on the side of the lake."It's a big concern for people who live on that side of the lake, if someone wants an ambulance or the fire brigade [they can't get past], that's a negative impact, but on the other hand, people need tourism here too - local businesses and so on."
Lisa Sperrin has lived in the area for 20 years, and said that the litter she sees at the lake is a nuisance."I've noticed that there seems to be an increase in that, particularly down at the lake," she said."I like to swim there in the mornings and there's often people parked overnight or they arrive really early in the morning and set up camp which isn't great, it's not supposed to be there."There's a lot of rubbish gathered down there, and just driving round you see a lot of campervans in laybys and things like that."
But another local, Beryl Roberts, said: "I haven't noticed it, but I've seen it on the papers and that, because down by the lake they're picking up everyday and the wardens are out."We depend on it [tourism], we've got businesses that depend on it."
Eryri National Park Authority said: "The authority prohibits overnight stays at its sites, and we actively encourage visitors to support local businesses and protect the natural environment by using official campsites."It added it had arranged a meeting with Llangower community council, and is working with North Wales Police to monitor criminal and anti-social behaviour.
Wild campers aim to leave no trace.They camp, with permission, for one night, arriving very late and leaving very early.They take their equipment, and any rubbish, home with them.However, fly campers is a term which has been adopted to describe people who illegally pitch up on private land without the landowner's permission, often leaving behind large amounts of litter.This is how campers whose presence is disrupting Llyn Tegid locals are being described.
