A new pharmacy is set to open next month in Glastonbury, after two closed last year.Residents launched a campaign to open a new chemist in the town, which has a population of 9,000, after they were left with just one pharmacy.The new chemist, which will be based in the old Four Seasons shop on the High Street,  could open by mid-August, owner Ramesh Yadav confirmed."I knew the community, so I was aware of the situation that was developing and from my own experience I knew the town needs another pharmacy," he said.
An application for a new chemist was approved earlier this year by a south west pharmacy committee. But its opening was delayed by an appeal against that decision, which has now been dismissed.Mr Yadav, who runs Magna Pharmacies, said Glastonbury would be his 13th branch.It will offer a seven-day-a-week service and has already recruited staff. "Glastonbury has always had a special place in my heart. Coming from Nepal it has a certain vibe I can resonate with."I'm thrilled we have been given the go ahead. I'm very excited about it," Mr Yadav said.
Town councillor Paul Manning said the campaign for a new pharmacy had "brought the community together" and he was sure it would be "very well supported".Two of Glastonbury's three pharmacies closed in the space of three months last year - Tesco and then Boots.Hundreds of people signed a petition in autumn 2023 to try and save the Boots pharmacy.Neighbouring village Street, which is just over two miles away, has three pharmacies.
A report to NHS Somerset in March, said the South West Pharmaceutical Services Regulatory Committee had approved an application for a new community pharmacy in Glastonbury.It was "satisfied that granting the application would confer a significant benefit to the local population by way of access to, or choice of, pharmaceutical services".However, an appeal was lodged against that decision to NHS Resolution, which resolves disputes.NHS Resolution has now confirmed that appeal has been rejected.
Follow BBC Somerset on Facebook, external and X, external. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
