A woman who felt "evicted from the dating scene" because of her alopecia said accepting the impact the condition has had on her has provided "freedom".
Jo Tucker, from Paulton, was diagnosed with alopecia in 2017 and now uses people's reaction to her condition to filter out potential partners.
"I've been on a date where a guy has said 'oh I'm not sure if I'd fancy you without hair', which stings," she said.
Ms Tucker said her hair fell out in just two weeks during a time of stress.
The mother-of-three, who is due to appear in the next series of Channel 4's First Dates, told BBC Radio Bristol: "Some people are understanding.
"Some people can't consider the concept and they immediately think there's something wrong with you so you're immediately evicted from the dating scene.
"It's a mixed bag really."
Ms Tucker first noticed a bald patch "the size of the top of a coke can" on her head.
"I'd had my third daughter. I'd just gone back to work. I was exhausted. It was Christmas, so it was quite a stressful time," said the 43-year-old.
"I'd found a patch before when I was pregnant with my second daughter and everything grew back so I was a bit relaxed," added Ms Tucker,
However, in the space of two weeks, her "hair fell out completely".
"In the shower, you'd run the shampoo through your hair and as you run your fingers through, a big rat's tail of hair would come out," she said.
Ms Tucker said the experience was "horrific" and she would "double take" herself in mirrors.
She said she "didn't know what to do" and "didn't feel myself with no hair".
Ms Tucker started wearing a hat but moved on to using wigs which made her "confident and comfortable" in her own skin again.
"It's taken a long time to get there. The acceptance is the freedom," she added.
Ms Tucker has about 40-50 wigs but said there was "a stigma attached" to wig wearing which "is a real shame". 
"You think of fancy dress wigs and you think about the old-fashioned ones... they've come on such a long way, they're amazing.
"It can be a lifesaver for some people as in, it really saves your confidence and makes you feel so much better about yourself.
"I'm at the point of acceptance now where I will quite happily tell somebody it's a wig," she said.
Follow BBC West on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: bristol@bbc.co.uk 
