Rank and file police officers have criticised Avon and Somerset Police for taking part in a TV documentary.
The three-part Channel 4 series, 'To Catch A Copper', provides a behind-the-scenes look at the force as they look at cases against their own officers.
Some employees said they felt "angry" and "let down" over the decision to participate.
Chief Constable Sarah Crew said the documentary had led to "open and honest discussions."
More than 400 members of the Avon and Somerset Police Federation - which represents constables, sergeants, inspectors and chief inspectors - responded to a survey regarding their thoughts on the documentary.
Members of the federation said they felt "appalled" by the decision to take part in the documentary, and some felt "utterly betrayed" and "unsupported." 
Some employees are reconsidering their careers with the force, the federation claimed.
Iain Prideaux, vice-chair of the Avon and Somerset Police Federation, said: "Morale has been severely dented and even officers' family members have said how concerned they feel toward their loved ones.
"Police officers have no issue with being held accountable for their actions, we are the most accountable of public services.
"But whilst putting policing under a microscope there should always be ample fairness and balance.
"The federation will continue to speak up for our good officers. We do it today and will continue to do so," he added.
In a statement, Ms Crew said: "I'd like to reassure everyone that when we entered into this relationship with the documentary makers, the federation were consulted, were fully supportive and involved throughout the filming, as you can see from the programmes that have aired.
"I've also had a constructive meeting with representatives of the Police Federation to listen to and understand the views being expressed to them.
"It's important to note the vast majority of reactions I've received directly, from members of the public, from people in positions of influence and power, and from the media, have been positive.
"They say we are being courageous and that through this radical transparency it shows we're committed to exposing, understanding and then addressing the barriers which are significantly impacting on people's trust and confidence in us."
Follow BBC West on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: bristol@bbc.co.uk 
