Church pastors are being invited into police cells in the hope young people can turn their lives around. 
Nottinghamshire Police described the scheme, which currently involves 14 pastors, as "groundbreaking".
Both the force and church figures acknowledged officers were not trusted by much of the black community.
By using people already respected in these communities, it is hoped those in trouble will listen to advice on changing their habits.
Ch Supt Suk Verma, who is leading the force's Race Action Plan, said a disproportionate number of black 18-25-year-olds were in the criminal justice system.
As many viewed the police as "enforcers", a different method of intervention was sought with the "groundbreaking" initiative the result.
He said: "I've seen at first hand the amount of kudos and power that black pastors hold within their communities.
"Young people and old people alike listen to every word they say, it is very impactful to observe, and I think they will have a huge influence in this environment.
"To me success would look like one person coming into the custody suite and changing their lives forever.
"We can see the journey that people take when they continually come in and out of police cells, which is a waste of time and resources.
"If we can transform one person's life, then we have succeeded but my aim is not to transform one person's life, but many people's lives."
Joe Nimpah, who works at a city church, said: "Custody provides an opportunity for young people to reflect on their lives and consider whether they are going to make changes.
"But, on the other hand, it is a very intimidating and stressful place, and they can miss that opportunity, and that is where we come in."
Street Pastor Hya Francis-Watson said: "Young people tend to feel they are not being listened to, so as a pastoral visitor we can help them to express themselves, feel at ease and know that their time in here is a time to reflect.
"Perhaps to look at doing something different with their lives rather than going back to where they were."
Follow BBC Nottingham on Facebook, on X, or on Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2210.
