Hue Jackson’s failed, flawed tenure with the Cleveland Browns is finally over.
The team fired its embattled coach on Monday, ending a run of futility nearly unmatched in NFL history. Jackson, who went 3-36-1 in two-plus seasons, was dismissed on Monday by general manager John Dorsey.
Jackson’s firing came on day after the Browns (2-5-1) lost their 25th straight road game -- 20 of them coming with Jackson in charge.
Accelerate the favorite
Accelerate, the California-based 5-year-old who has won five of six starts this year, is the 5-2 morning-line favorite for the Breeders’ Cup Classic after drawing the far outside No. 14 post for the $6 million race.
West Coast, one of two entries trained by Hall of Famer Bob Baffert, is the 5-1 second choice after drawing the No. 7 post. He will start to the right of stablemate McKinzie, the co-third choice with Mind Your Biscuits (No. 11 post) at 6-1 odds. McKinzie’s jockey is Hall of Famer Mike Smith, who rode Justify to this year’s Triple Crown before the colt was retired this summer with an ankle issue.
While Justify’s absence left the Breeders’ Cup’s marquee race without horse racing’s most notable star, it features entries that could challenge him for Horse of the Year honors. Accelerate arrives at Churchill Downs with a three-race winning streak by a combined 19 lengths.
Maple Leafs star injured
Maple Leafs star Auston Matthews is expected to miss at least four weeks because of a shoulder injury.

        
    
The team says on Twitter the 21-year-old center will be placed on injured reserve.
Matthews was injured early in the second period Saturday during Toronto’s 3-2 victory over Winnipeg. Defenseman Jacob Trouba delivered a clean shoulder-to-shoulder check as Matthews tried to cut in front of the net.
The Oakland Athletics believe they have stability in their leadership structure to keep a good thing going and build momentum from their 2018 playoff return.
Manager Bob Melvin has been rewarded for guiding another turnaround, receiving a long-term contract extension. The A’s also reached new deals with executive vice president of baseball operations Billy Beane and general manager David Forst. Under Melvin’s guidance, a young, slugging Oakland club went 97-65. ... New Orleans Pelicans forward Anthony Davis was held out for a second straight game because of a sprained right elbow. Davis also sat out Saturday’s loss to Utah. He’s averaging 27.3 points, 13.3 rebounds and 4.8 assists this season.
