SANDWICH – Chris Roe believes in the paranormal. She has heard tales of real-life experiences and has witnessed firsthand what she describes as “things not quite what they appear to be.”
Roe is the executive director at the Sandwich Opera House, 140 E. Railroad St. in Sandwich. After having one or two odd experiences at work, she decided she would try to determine what was happening.
But instead of calling the Ghostbusters, she invited members of the Midwest Ghost Society to the opera house to conduct a private investigation.
“Once, as cleanup for an event was ending, I was told that the lights in the basement were on,” Roe said. “I knew nobody had been down there because the door was locked. When I went downstairs, the lights were on. I don’t know how that happened.
“Also – this was years ago – but the opera house had a problem with flickering lights. As the maintenance man was fixing the problem, he unplugged the lights. They were still flickering,” she said.
Others have reported of unnatural phenomena occurring in the building, including random drops in temperature and people saying they can feel an aura. Michelle Lemire, founder of the MGS, said that during the private investigation, audio recorders captured voices, including a young child’s voice, that could not be explained.
At least one funeral service was held in the opera house, that of Sandwich Mayor Julius M. Hummel in 1930. Then-mayor Hummel had commissioned the building of the Sandwich City Hall and Opera House, which was completed in 1878.

        
    
When first built, the building housed all the functions of city government, including city offices, the police department, a jail and the fire department.
The second floor was a community center, where shows by traveling troupes, lectures, recitals, high school graduations, political rallies, temperance meetings and church gatherings were held.
Since the initial investigation in January 2016, the MGS has held four guided paranormal investigations open to the public at the opera house.
On Jan. 28, 11 of the group’s 16 members led the society’s fifth guided investigation for 30 members of the public.
“We hosted this event and other public investigations to introduce people to what we do,” Lemire said. “We want people to get involved, learn about our equipment and have a good experience.”
Lemire started MGS, which is based in Plano, in 2010. Since its founding, the MGS has traveled across the country to investigate public locations, businesses and private residences. For some of the locations that are farther away, the group spends the night or even a few days in the building while they investigate.
Ray Buchanan Jr. of Newark, one of the MGS’ original members, described the investigations as fun, social group outings.
“I love being in a goal-oriented team environment,” Buchanan said. “Many of us have a love of history and historical places. There are a few locations that we visit regularly. The events are fun, but we use scientific methods in our investigations to both disprove and prove if anything is out there. I am both a believer and a skeptic, but it’s hard not to believe.”
Some examples of phenomena the MGS has reported and can’t explain include seeing spheres of light in dark rooms, having chairs pushed over and hearing mysterious noises such as whispers, screams and whistling.
Tammy Hawke of Hinckley, who has been with the MGS for more than five years, said she had her first paranormal experience after having a nightmare as a child.
“I remember waking up from a horrible nightmare, and there was an old lady sitting at the foot of my bed,” Hawke said. “She told me, ‘It’s OK, honey, go back to sleep.’ That’s when I realized that ghosts were real. I work for Fermilab. I believe very strongly in using science to debunk what we see. However, some things can’t be explained by science.”
To try to debunk phenomena, the group uses electromagnetic field sensors, REM-pods with temperature detection, video cameras with night vision capabilities and audio recorders.
It also uses a converted AM/FM radio to generate white noise, hoping to capture electronic voice phenomenon, or EVPs. Setting up and taking down the equipment and wires is the most time-consuming task of investigations.
Reviewing the collected video, audio and data can take the MGS two weeks or longer.
“When we investigate, we ask the spirits or entities questions and record audio to see if there are any EVPs,” said Joseph Lemire, lead investigator and Michelle’s husband. “Humans can usually only hear around decibels 20 Hertz and louder. Dogs and electronics can pick up the lower decibels. But sometimes, our technology can’t explain what we hear or see. Most of us have theories about what they are, though.”
When the group was investigating the Tinker Swiss Cottage in Rockford, Hawke had a direct response when she asked aloud, “Can you say my name?”
“Right now, we don’t know what they are or why we can see or hear these things,” Hawke said. “Maybe they are from another dimension or are souls or energy left behind when a person passes on. Some people call them ghosts, but we use the terms spirits or entities. We have also witnessed shadow figures, dark shadows with no features.”
Attendees of the opera house event had their own theories. David Lemmons of Aurora attended with his son and two family friends.
“I’ve never done a ghost hunt before, but I’ve seen them on TV and they’re really interesting,” Lemmons said. “I haven’t seen a ghost, but there’s always a first time for everything.”
Amateur investigators Lisa Seifrid of Hinckley and Lynette McNamara of Batavia used an EMF sensor and a camcorder during the sessions. Both Seifrid and McNamara heard odd noises during the investigation and will be reviewing their recordings to determine what they heard.
“We’ve had experiences in the past, seeing what looks like a person when nobody is there and hearing disembodied voices,” Seifrid said. “I’m Catholic, and I’ve talked to my priest about it. I definitely believe. I want to help them communicate what they want to communicate and move on.
“This is our first time in the opera house, but my aunt was from the area and always commented that it was haunted,” she said. “We have to look at our evidence to determine if what we heard was anything, but the event was fun, ghosts or not.”
