ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Troy Terry added to a breakout season as he scored his first NHL hat trick Tuesday night in the Anaheim Ducks’ 4-1 victory over the Philadelphia Flyers.
The right wing is third in the league with 21 goals, including 11 that have tied the game or given the Ducks a lead. He had a pair of goals in the first period and completed the first hat trick of his five-year career on an empty-net goal with 49 seconds remaining.
“I had the puck a lot more against Colorado (on Sunday). Some scoring chances didn’t go my way the last game but they did tonight,” Terry said. 
Sonny Milano also scored and Jamie Drysdale had two assists for Anaheim, which snapped a two-game skid. John Gibson stopped 28 shots. 
Cam Atkinson scored Philadelphia’s goal and Carter Hart made 29 saves. 
The Flyers have dropped two in a row after collecting points in seven straight games. They were without leading scorer Claude Giroux and defenseman Ivan Provorov after they were placed in the NHL’s COVID-19 protocols.
“Those are quality players but you have to adjust,” interim coach Mike Yeo said. “We had a number of opportunities, just missed the side of the net. We tried to be aggressive and didn’t get goals.”
Anaheim was also down a couple of key players due to COVID-19. Ducks captain Ryan Getzlaf missed his second game and rookie Trevor Zegras has been out the past three.
“For us, that was as big of a win as I can remember this year,” said coach Dallas Eakins, who earned his 100th NHL victory. “That was to a man everyone doing their job and being fully committed to a game plan. We had big saves when we needed them and our special teams chipped in.”

        
    
Hampus Lindholm fired a shot from the top of the left circle that was tipped in by Terry at 3:21 of the first period. It was originally ruled no goal after the puck hit the near post, but a replay review determined it crossed the goal line.
Six minutes later, Terry got the puck in the neutral zone, put a nifty move on Flyers defenseman Travis Sanheim and flipped in a shot on the breakaway.
It was Terry’s 20th goal of the season in 35 games, making him the second-fastest Ducks player to reach that number. Corey Perry did it in 33 games in 2013-14. 
“I’m extremely proud of Troy. I’ve seen this kid right from Day One. For him to be where he’s at, goal-scoring, as a big influencer and driver on our team, it’s fun to watch,” Eakins said. “I think that’s one of the real privileges of coaching is to see these guys grow into players.”
Atkinson brought the Flyers to 2-1 with 1:18 remaining in the first on a redirect of Joel Farabee’s pass. Atkinson has 13 goals this season, but it was his first since he had a hat trick against New Jersey on Dec. 14.
Milano scored Anaheim’s sixth power-play goal in his last six games with 2:11 left in the second period when he took Sam Steel’s pass and put it into the short side after Hart was out of position.
Drysdale had his third multi-assist game this season and is fourth among NHL rookies with 13 assists. He has 24 points in 60 career games. That is the third-most by a Ducks rookie defenseman in his first 60 games, behind only Francois Beauchemin (34) and Cam Fowler (29).
Flyers: Begin a three-game homestand Thursday against the Pittsburgh Penguins.
Ducks: Host the Detroit Red Wings on Thursday.
More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
