We believe in truth, facts, and science. We take the time to think. And we don't accept — we ask why.
In a complex, fast-paced world of soundbites, knee-jerk opinions and information overload, BBC Future provides something different: a home for slowing down, delving deep and shifting perspectives.
We look for answers to the issues facing the world in science. You’ll find stories here on almost every topic that matters. Psychology. Food. Climate change. Health. Social trends. Technology.
What links them all is our approach. Through evidence-based analysis, original thinking, and powerful storytelling, we shine a light on the hidden ways that the world is changing – and provide solutions for how to navigate it. Energised by the everyday, we think no topic is too small to be fascinating. Inspired by obstacles, we believe no subject is too overwhelming to tackle.
We're the proud recipients of both the 2019 Webby Award for best writing and the 2019 Lovie Award for best writing. Our writing also won two Medical Journalist Association Awards in 2021 while another piece was highly commended by the judges. 
Who’s who at BBC Future:
Editor Richard Gray leads BBC Future's editorial and commercial strategy. When he can, he writes about a wide range of topics, from health to artificial intelligence. He is particularly interested in research and technologies that are tackling some of the big challenges facing the world today, often in surprising ways. You can find him at @chalkmark on Twitter.
Deputy editor Stephen Dowling manages the site day to day. He particularly looks after the site’s space, aviation, transport and design coverage, and is also interested in geopolitics, disease and ocean science. He is @kosmofoto on Twitter.
Future Planet editor and senior journalist Martha Henriques commissions, edits and writes stories for BBC Future. She works across science and health, with particular interests in environment, climate change and human behaviour. She is @Martha_Rosamund on Twitter.
Senior journalist Richard Fisher writes, edits and commissions features on science, technology, history, philosophy and art. He is the author of a book called The Long View, and an honorary research fellow at UCL, where he teaches on the science communication master's course. In 2019-20, he was a Knight Science Journalism fellow at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he researched the principles of long-term thinking, and how short-termism is shaping society's response to the grand challenges of the 21st Century. Website: richardfisher.carrd.co. Twitter: @rifish.
Senior journalist Zaria Gorvett is an award-winning writer who covers a little bit of everything. Her current obsessions include quests for things that have been lost (check out her series The Lost Index), deep dives into everyday phenomena that are often overlooked (like spider-killing), and immunity. She is @ZariaGorvett on Twitter.
Associate creative director for BBC.com, Javier Hirschfeld oversees the site's visuals, including photography and illustrations. He’s interested in the power of representation, visual history, politics, consumerism and sustainability, gender and art. He is at @j_hirschfeld_m on Twitter.
