Irate business leaders have hit out at council's promotion of a scheme encouraging people to buy nothing new in January. 
A social media post by Ards and North Down Borough Council backed a campaign by environmental charity Keep Northern Ireland Beautiful.
It suggested people could join the Buy Nothing New Month campaign to reduce waste and save money. 
Traders raised concerns about the post on the council's Facebook page.
The council has since deleted it, saying that feedback from businesses indicated it was "unhelpful".
It said the campaign was a "voluntary initiative and not designed to undermine traders". 
Figures from the Northern Ireland Retail Consortium (NIRC) suggest retail footfall was 4.7% lower in December compared to the previous year.
William Gilliland, owner of Excel Clothing in Bangor and Newtownards, said he initially thought the council's Facebook post was a joke. 
"It sends a very bad message to customers as far as town centres are concerned," he told BBC NI's Good Morning Ulster programme. 
"The council should be concentrating on Bangor and Newtownards town centres, making them more profitable, making them more accessible and encouraging growth through business, which ultimately pays the rates in the towns.
"To be seen to be supporting what I believe to be a nonsense campaign is something that should not be in their remit at all."
Buy Nothing New Month is a national campaign running for its second year, delivered locally by Keep Northern Ireland Beautiful.
The charity's chief executive, Dr Ian Humphries, told BBC Radio Ulster's The Nolan Show that he was unsurprised by business leaders' reaction to the campaign, but said people's lifestyles need to change urgently.
"It's a voluntary campaign aimed at non-essential purchases to tackle overconsumption, which is part of an issue resulting in climate change, biodiversity loss, things that are affecting and threatening the lives of future generations," he said.
"The reality is we're stealing the future of our children through our lifestyles now."
Glyn Roberts, chief executive of Retail NI, urged the charity to withdraw the campaign.
Mr Roberts said many Retail NI members had cut down on packaging, were sourcing local produce and cutting down on food miles.
"Wouldn't it be better if they promoted a recycling message rather than encouraging people not to spend?" he asked.
"We all know January is the worst month for retail - this is an ill-judged, ill-considered campaign at the worst possible time."
Green Party councillor for Ards and North Down Borough Council Lauren Kendall described the post as "ill-timed" but said the tagline "does not capture the spirit of the Keep Northern Ireland Beautiful campaign".
"I understand the frustration and anger at the post, but the message is about buying locally and responsibly," she said.
"Continuing to support local businesses is really important but that's not mutually exclusive to sustainability.
"Local businesses are driving sustainability so it is absolutely crucial that the council gets it right and does both."
