The headlines on local website and newspapers in the West of England have been, unsurprisingly, dominated by the upcoming General Election over the past week.Bristol Live reporter Tristan Cork has been looking at the seats which are currently held by the Conservatives are most under threat, based on YouGov polling data. Gloucestershire Live's Local Democracy Reporter Carmelo Garcia reported on Prime Minister Rishi Sunak's visit to Stroud, following his D-Day gaffe. Alice Knight, from the Stroud News and Journal also covered the visit.Jamie Grover, from the Somerset County Gazette, covered Deborah Meaden's decision to back Labour Leader Sir Keir Starmer, citing his plan to overhaul the business rates system. The paper also looks at how the Liberal Democrats could be big winners in the county.
In other news, the Swindon Advertiser's Jason Hughes reports on two Wiltshire Police officers who have been disciplined after failing to properly investigate serial rapist David Carrick. The pair have been given a final warning.Carrick was jailed last year for a minimum of 30 years for 49 violent and sexual offences, including 24 counts of rape against 12 women.
It's nearly 100 days since Jack O'Sullivan went missing in Bristol. And, reports Shannon Brown on Bristol Live, his parents have renewed an appeal for help finding him.He was last seen on 2 March close to Brunel Lock Road after attending a birthday party in the Hotwells area.
A decade-long battle over a "man cave" in Cinderford seemed to reach a dramatic conclusion this week.Carmelo Garcia, in Gloucestershire Live, reported that the illegal structure had been demolished but legal fees for the Forest of Dean Council has spiralled to £78,000. The man cave, built by Graham Wilden, had a cinema and bowling alley - but crucially, no planning permission.
A positive story in Somerset, where patients with bladder tumours can now be treated more easily.Milly Vincent reports that the Trans Urethral Laser Ablation was first used at Yeovil Hospital but is now available at Musgrove Park Hospital in Taunton. The procedure with the devices takes 10 to 20 minutes, and patients can usually go home the same day.
A rather grim story from the Swindon Advertiser's Sarah Dalton about a woman from the town who bought a McDonald's meal.Tammy Durgan's burger wasn't quite what she wanted, so prepare your stomach if you have a read of this one.
A really fun story from the Salisbury Journal's Isabella Holliday, about a tiny sculpture of Stonehenge which is the same thickness and size as a human hair! David A Lindon has set the piece of art on the head of a pin, and is well worth a look at.
Finally, if you're looking for something fun to do this weekend, it's the Bradley Stoke Festival. The town's hyperlocal website, the Bradley Stoke Journal, has a comprehensive list of events taking place - including a 10k race.
Follow BBC Bristol on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
