The mum of a young boy who ended up in hospital while on holiday in Portugal has said he will now be flown home.
Theo, two, became unwell with a virus attacking his brain on 13 September and is in hospital, but is now due to be flown back to Wales on Wednesday.
His mother, Sarah Jones, had previously said that trying to arrange transport home with insurers Axa Partners had been "shambolic".
Axa Partners said its "absolute priority" was the family's return home.
Sarah, from Maesteg, Bridgend county, said she has been told Theo will be collected on Wednesday morning to be transferred to Cardiff via air ambulance with a supporting paediatric team.
"To say we have been overwhelmed is a complete understatement," she said on social media.
"We're praying these plans do not change and we sincerely thank everyone for their continued support and the enormous amount of work behind the scenes from family, friends and even complete strangers."
Theo's parents were initially told he had a stomach flu but a scan revealed he had a problem with his cerebellum, a part of the brain.
Sarah had previously said she was told by an Axa agent that for her to receive updates that they would need the patient to call in and give permission for her to speak on their behalf. 
"I said 'so, let me just double check what you're saying. You want me to get my two-year-old, who has lost the ability to speak, to just pop a call in and give authorisation for his mother to chat'?," said Sarah.
She said the agent then apologised and continued with the call after deciding she had in fact passed security checks. 
Theo's family had been told on Friday that repatriation would take place "within 48 hours" - although that has now been scheduled for Wednesday instead.
Sarah has also been in contact with the University Hospital of Wales in Cardiff, which said it would take in Theo.
She said before this latest update the contact with Axa had been "just shambolic" as she had not been informed whether the insurers were securing a specialist paediatric team for the flight
Before Sarah revealed that Theo would be going home, an Axa spokesperson said: "It is our absolute priority for the Jones family to return to the UK as soon as is logistically possible. 
"We have been in contact with all of our providers and have reviewed all options to secure repatriation via air ambulance with the relevant paediatric team and equipment on board. 
"Our primary concern is to ensure Theo has the best care on his return to the UK. We have been in regular contact with Mrs Jones throughout to keep her informed of the steps we are taking." 
