Schools educating young people permanently excluded from mainstream education say they are under pressure due to a rise in exclusions.
Permanent exclusions in Surrey rose 81% from 59 in 2018-19 to 107 in 2021-22. 
The head of three Pupil Referral Units (PRUs), which educates excluded and suspended pupils, said demand for its service had grown since the pandemic.
The government said it backed head teachers using suspension and permanent exclusion where warranted.
Amy Smith, director of education at the Inclusive Education Trust, said the need for its services was "the highest that I've ever seen".
"There is not enough to support young people, particularly those exhibiting challenging behaviour," she said.
Jodie said her 10-year-old son was being taught at Wey Valley College in Guildford after he was expelled from a primary school. 
"I think it was a mixture of hormones, ADHD and age, and then it got to the point where he was expelled. 
"It was heartbreaking. We both cried when they said that was it, he wasn't going back."
Jodie said her son's experience at the PRU was "10 times better".
Her son said: "They help me more because I have shorter lessons and smaller classes."
Meanwhile, a 14-year-old student said the PRU gave him a chance to build for a better future. 
"All the teachers here understand. At a mainstream school, you will be sent out, but here they will take you out of the lesson and ask if you are alright," he said. 
"I feel like I am wanted in a school now."
Ms Smith, who is also the vice president of PRUsAP, which represents PRU and alternative provision providers, said: "There aren't enough places.
"There are lots of conversations happening across the country about more commissioning and what that looks like and what we can do to support mainstream schools, but ultimately that all comes down to money."
A DfE spokesman said the use of suspension and permanent exclusion could be warranted to create "calm, safe and supportive environments, where both pupils and staff can work in safety and are respected".
"Our SEND and AP improvement plan sets out a national vision and delivery model for the alternative provision system, working in partnership with mainstream schools to provide early intervention and reduce the numbers of preventable exclusions."
The government said it was investing £2.6bn to create tens of thousands of new places for children with special educational needs and disabilities.
Follow BBC South East on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk. 
