A Lane County jury on Friday convicted a woman of murder in the January 2017 shooting death of Joshua Ty Turnage in Alton Baker Park.
Lacy Lyons, 35, of Eugene will return to Lane County Circuit Court for sentencing on Tuesday.
Jurors heard evidence in her trial over the past week and listened to attorneys’ closing arguments in the case on Thursday before beginning deliberations. Those discussions continued Friday, and the verdict was announced shortly before 3 p.m.
In addition to voting unanimously to find Lyons guilty of murder, the jury also convicted her of second-degree assault for striking Turnage with a handgun in an earlier incident.
Lyons’ attorney, David Saydack, told jurors in an opening statement to the trial that his client had shot and killed Turnage, who had been her boyfriend, after enduring months of threats that led her to believe that he eventually would kill her.
Lyons testified in her own defense at trial earlier this week, according to court records.
Lane County Assistant District Attorney Katherine Green, meanwhile, told jurors that evidence in the case supported the state’s theory that Lyons intentionally shot Turnage in the back and was not acting in self-defense.
Green and Saydack both declined comment Friday after the verdict was returned.
Lyons walked away from the park after killing her boyfriend, and later called 911 from a downtown Eugene coffee shop to report the incident, Green said in court. The prosecutor added that during a subsequent interview with police, Lyons discussed the “toxic nature” of her relationship with Turnage but never asserted that she feared Turnage was going to use deadly force against her on the night of the shooting.

        
    
Turnage was unarmed when police went to the park and found his body in the back seat of a Ford Explorer that the couple had called home, Green said.
The couple had been camping in the SUV at the park, where Eugene city officials authorized overnight car camping as part of a program managed by St. Vincent de Paul.
Lyons is expected to be sentenced to life in prison when she returns to court Tuesday.
