Florida's first lady Casey DeSantis is expected to play a lead role in her husband's impending campaign for the White House. Is she his secret weapon?
It is not unusual for politicians running for office to get their spouses involved, but during Ron DeSantis' tenure as Florida governor, his wife has often been in the spotlight.
Mrs DeSantis, 42, has spearheaded the governor's response on issues ranging from disaster relief to mental health.
The mother of three is no stranger to the national stage. She had been a television news reporter and commentator in Florida for years by the time she met her future husband while playing golf in 2006.
They were married three years later at Walt Disney World, now locked in a legal battle with the governor.
As Mr DeSantis has climbed up the rungs, launching bids for the US House of Representatives, the US Senate and then the governor's mansion, his wife has been there every step of the way.
She has appeared in his TV ads, accompanied him on foreign trips, introduced him at speaking engagements and is said to be "looped in on every email and calendar invite" that goes to the governor.
In March 2022, five months after she was diagnosed with breast cancer, she revealed that she was cancer-free. 
The ensuing weeks saw the first lady feature prominently on the campaign trail, including in a tearful video tribute to her husband who she said "was there to fight for me when I didn't have the strength to fight for myself".
And after Hurricane Ian ravaged the state weeks before Florida voters passed judgment on Mr DeSantis' re-election bid, she led efforts to raise money for hurricane relief. 
The state's disaster fund ultimately raised more than $60m (£48m) to support recovery efforts, including more than $2m in the first 24 hours.
"We just couldn't be more proud of what you have done," Mrs DeSantis said. "Thank you to the people across the state and the country for stepping up big."
Mr DeSantis was easily re-elected in November, winning by the largest margin of any governor in the state in four decades.
At his inauguration event in January, and then again at his state of the state address in March, Mrs DeSantis stood out with the long white satin gloves she wore.
Political observers openly pondered if she was channelling former US first lady Jackie Kennedy. And, if so, did she too want to be the lady of the White House? It seems we have the answer. 
