The Speaker of the House of Commons has described the "void" left by the death of his father Lord Doug Hoyle. Sir Lindsay Hoyle said he had "known nothing else" other than having the veteran politician to turn to for support and advice. Lord Hoyle died surrounded by his family on 6 April at the age of 98. His funeral is due to take place in Chorley today. The "dedicated parliamentarian" served as Labour MP for Nelson and Colne from 1974 to 1979, and for Warrington from 1981 to 1997 before being ennobled as Lord Hoyle. Speaking to BBC Radio Lancashire, Sir Lindsay said: "It's the gap, it's the void that he's left. "I've known nothing else than my father there to turn to, to advise me, not only as a father but as a friend and as a brother in that sense. "As an only child he was my elder brother."
Sir Lindsay described how Lord Hoyle was born into a staunch Conservative household, and was even named after Tory politician Douglas Hacking. However he said after training as a draughts engineer he "looked at the conditions people were working in" and embarked on a "political journey" to the left. He said: "He dealt with the people he represented in the same way that I always ensure that Chorley [is represented]."I want to make sure that I do my public service right and it's the ethos that I inherited from him to look after people, to serve people and do my best for the community that I represent. "I learnt a lot from my father."Sir Lindsay said initially his father's career almost deterred him from becoming a politician. 
Sir Lindsay said: "You see the ups and downs of political life - one minute you've got a job the next minute you're thrown out. "I saw how hard it was, how hard he worked, how he believed in the textile industry fighting for Nelson and Colne, fighting for Lancashire Textiles."However Sir Lindsay did decide to follow in his father's footsteps, despite some concern from the "protective" Lord Hoyle, and became Chorley MP in 1997. Sir Lindsay described being able to share the moment he became Speaker - in November 2019 - with his father as "magical". "I'm very proud that my father was there for that, you know he's been there for those big occasions", he said. Sir Lindsay, who was named after Australian cricketer Lindsay Hassett, also said he inherited his love of sport from "cricket mad" Lord Hoyle. His father was also a "passionate" rugby league fan and served as chairman of Warrington Wolves from 1999 to 2009. Describing the wider family as "obviously very sad", he said: "What we've got to do is remember the good times, the great times I had with Doug. "Father, brother, adviser. He was everything to me and everything to the family, so there is a huge gap in the family at the moment."
Listen to the best of BBC Radio Lancashire on Sounds and follow BBC Lancashire on Facebook, X and Instagram? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
