SAN ANTONIO (AP) — The Latest on the fatal shooting of a San Antonio police detective during a traffic stop Sunday (all times local):
10:55 p.m.
The suspect in the ambush shooting of a San Antonio police detective says he was angry about a child-custody battle and “lashed out at somebody who didn’t deserve it.”
Otis Tyrone McKane was led by police past reporters as he was taken to Bexar (BAYR) County Jail in San Antonio late Monday. He told reporters that he was angry with the court system for not letting him see his son and took it out on Detective Benjamin Marconi.
In his words, “I’ve been through several custody battles, and I was upset at the situation I was in, and I lashed out at someone who didn’t deserve it.” He said he wished to apologize to the family of the slain officer.
The 31-year-old San Antonio man was arrested on a capital murder charge Monday afternoon in the fatal shooting of Marconi. The detective was shot as he sat in his vehicle Sunday after making a traffic stop. Authorities have said a gunman walked up to Marconi’s driver’s-side window and fired.
Marconi was writing a ticket for a motorist at the time. Investigators have said that driver was not connected to the shooter.
6:20 p.m.
After a sleepless night for police officers in San Antonio, Police Chief William McManus says he looks forward to a good night’s sleep.
That’s after the arrest Monday afternoon of a suspect in the Sunday night slaying of Detective Benjamin Marconi.

        
    
McManus says 31-year-old Otis Tyrone McKane was arrested on a capital murder warrant in the killing. He was arrested in a car driven by a woman on Interstate 10 on the eastern fringe of San Antonio.
The investigation continues. And McManus says despite the arrest, the fact remains that some people would target police officers with violence. He says San Antonio officers will remain “vigilant and on guard.”
5:30 p.m.
A suspect has been arrested in the fatal weekend shooting of a San Antonio police detective.
San Antonio Police Chief William McManus said Monday evening that 31-year-old Otis Tyrone McKane was arrested without incident in the Sunday night killing of Detective Benjamin Marconi. He was arrested around 4:30 p.m. Monday after a car he was riding in was stopped on Interstate 10.
McManus had said previously that dashcam video from Marconi’s patrol vehicle provided “a lot of information” for investigators about his death.
Marconi was shot as a he sat in his vehicle after making a traffic stop. Authorities have said a gunman walked up to Marconi’s driver’s-side window and fired.
Marconi was writing a ticket for a motorist at the time. Investigators have said that driver was not connected to the shooter.
This update has been corrected to show that the suspect was arrested in a car that he was riding in, not a car that he was driving, and to show that the suspect’s last name is ‘McKane’ and not ‘McCain.’
4:30 p.m.
The weekend shootings of police officers in San Antonio, St. Louis and two other cities are prompting some police departments to have their officers work in pairs until further notice.
David Pughes, interim police chief in Dallas, urged his officers Monday to partner in pairs. Meanwhile, the Fort Worth Police Department instituted a mandatory two-officers-per-call policy, including on traffic stops.
San Antonio Police Chief William McManus already urged his officers to partner on calls after San Antonio Detective Benjamin Marconi was shot and killed Sunday. McManus said he believed Marconi was targeted because of his uniform.
A St. Louis police officer was shot and wounded Sunday night. Officers also were shot and wounded Sunday night during traffic stops in Sanibel, Florida, and Gladstone, Missouri.
1:30 p.m.
Family members of a slain San Antonio police detective are expressing gratitude for an outpouring of support they say they’ve received from across the country.
Detective Benjamin Marconi’s family issued a statement Monday giving “thanks from the bottom of our hearts.”
Family members are asking for privacy to mourn the death of the 50-year-old Marconi, a 20-year veteran of the department.
Marconi was shot twice Sunday morning as he sat in his patrol vehicle writing a traffic ticket near police headquarters.
Police Chief William McManus said during a Monday news conference that he thinks “the uniform was the target.”
The search for the gunman continues.
11:30 a.m.
San Antonio police commanders are encouraging officers to patrol with partners as the manhunt continues for a suspect in the fatal shooting of a detective.
Police Chief William McManus said during a news conference Monday that officers are not required to patrol with partners but he’s encouraging the move.
McManus also said dashcam video from Detective Benjamin Marconi’s patrol vehicle has provided “a lot of information” for investigators about his death Sunday morning.
Marconi was shot as a he sat in his vehicle after making a traffic stop. Authorities have said the suspect walked up to Marconi’s driver’s-side window and fired.
Marconi was writing a ticket for a motorist at the time. Investigators have said that driver was not connected to the shooter.
10:15 a.m.
Police in Texas say a San Antonio officer who was fatally shot was targeted because of his uniform.
Police Chief William McManus said at a news conference Monday morning that he thinks “the uniform was the target” in the shooting of Det. Benjamin Marconi Sunday morning.
McManus says “anyone (in a police uniform) who happened along was the target.”
Police are asking the public for help in identifying the suspect in the shooting. The man appeared at the San Antonio police headquarters about four hours before the shooting. Surveillance video shows a black man likely in his 20s dressed all in black.
McManus declined to explain why police believe this man shot Marconi, saying he didn’t want to jeopardize the ongoing investigation.
10 a.m.
Authorities in San Antonio say the suspect in the killing of a veteran police detective appeared at police headquarters prior to the shooting.
Authorities released surveillance video Monday showing the suspect standing outside the building and then walking in. The images show a black man dressed in all black and wearing a black ball cap.
The video shows the man entered headquarters shortly before 8 a.m. Sunday. Detective Benjamin Marconi was shot twice in his patrol car about four hours later after making a traffic stop near police headquarters.
Police have not said why the unidentified suspect appeared at the station or who he spoke to while there. San Antonio police say police Chief William McManus will hold a news conference Monday morning.
2:40 a.m.
Two police officers have been shot in separate incidents in what authorities are calling targeted attacks. One died while the other was shot twice in the face but was expected to survive.
Authorities say a San Antonio detective writing out a traffic ticket to a motorist was shot to death in his squad car late Sunday morning outside police headquarters by another driver who pulled up from behind.
San Antonio police Chief William McManus identified the officer as 50-year-old Benjamin Marconi, a 20-year veteran of the force.
In St. Louis, a police sergeant was hospitalized in critical condition but expected to survive after being shot twice in the face Sunday night in what the police chief called an “ambush.” Police reported early Monday that the suspect was later killed in a shootout with police.
