Concerns have been raised about the impact of a road closure due to gas upgrade works. Wolborough Street in Newton Abbot has been closed by Wales & West Utilities at its junctions with Linden Terrace and Pomeroy Road until 9 August to upgrade the gas network. Local people said there were traffic issues in the area and one business said it was "really struggling".Wales & West programme controller Roxanne Whittaker said it was "essential to keep the gas flowing safely to heat and power local homes and businesses, and to make sure the gas network is ready to transport greener gas in the future".
She added: "To help minimise the impact of the road closure, we now have traffic managers in place along the diversion route to guide the flow of traffic, and to prevent motorists attempting to travel down closed side streets which were then getting blocked."It was also agreed that we carry out these works during the summer holidays to try and further minimise disruption." Karen Barlow, the manager of The Wolborough Inn, said queuing and detours had caused problems.She said: "All of us in Newton Abbot, we really do need our locals to come out and just to support us, you know, the little businesses, because we are really struggling."
Resident, Issy, 23, said: "It's an absolute nightmare, it's making everyone late for everything, the traffic is insane."Deborah and her father, Bert, live in Ogwell. Deborah said it had impacted them both: "Just getting into town, I've got to be in early in the morning, so what I tend to do is park as far down as I can and then walk in."Bert, who is 90, said: "Normally on a Friday evening I go in and play cards with some friends and get a taxi home, if I get a taxi now home it will probably cost me triple." Ms Whittaker said: "We are sorry for the inconvenience that our work has caused."We would like to assure people that we are doing everything that we can to ensure the safe flow of traffic and to keep disruption to a minimum. "However, we would advise that motorists leave extra time to travel or use alternative routes if at all possible."
Follow BBC Devon on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk.
