Young people believed to have been involved in a number of serious incidents at a farm in Plymouth have been located, police have said. Devon and Cornwall Police said there had been a "spate" of anti-social behaviour and Poole Farm, near Leigham. Officers said reports over recent weeks had included drug paraphernalia being discarded at the farm, as well as an alleged arson attempt on a tent. Police said those involved were taking part in a "restorative justice programme" due to their age to understand the effects of their actions.
Other incidents at the farm included fencing being ripped down, damage to entrances, graffiti on benches, tools being moved from storage sheds and littering, they added, police said.PC Sarah Hill said the justice programme would help offenders understand the "upset and distress" their behaviour had caused to farm staff, animals and the local community.She said: “Restorative justice allows offenders to acknowledge their actions and put their behaviour right, by spending time with the victim and understanding the negative consequences of their actions first-hand."She said if anyone reoffended, they would risk receiving "harsher punishments and a criminal record". 
The force said the farm was funded by Plymouth City Council and supported local people with their wellbeing. It said the anti-social behaviour has had a financial impact on the organisation and due to staff having to fix and tidy damage, reducing time they could spend with the local community, including children and young families. Police added: "The resident wildlife and animals have also been negatively impacted as a result of this anti-social behaviour, particularly the beaver population, which is sensitive to disturbance ... and [could see conservation work] potentially fail."Police said they would continue to support the farm by sharing crime prevention advice and were conducting regular patrols of the area. Officers said they were also encouraging members of the community to continue reporting any instances of anti-social behaviour.
Follow BBC Devon on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk.
