Welsh leadership contender Vaughan Gething has said the NHS saved his life when he was "seriously unwell".
The economy minister is hoping to succeed Mark Drakeford to become first minister, competing against Jeremy Miles. 
Mr Gething, who was previously treated for kidney disease in a clinical drugs trial, said he "would not be here" without the health service.
"This really is personal for me," he added.
"I know what it's like to be seriously unwell. The NHS was there for me when I needed it most and I'll always be there for the NHS," he told BBC Radio Wales Breakfast.
"With my own experience, if I was in a different part of the world I would not be here talking to you today were it not for the NHS."
Mr Gething has previously revealed how, in the year after his A-levels, he developed a kidney disease known as nephrotic syndrome.
"It was only when the drug the NHS was trialling for my condition stabilised my condition that I was once again able to look to a future with a sense of optimism," he said.
"Like for so many of us, the NHS was there for me when I needed it.  And I promise that I will always, always be there for the NHS."
If he becomes first minister, Mr Gething has pledged to ensure that spending on health and social care in Wales does not fall below that of England and ruled out the privatisation of the Welsh NHS.
According to the latest Welsh government statistics, Wales spends 8% more per person than England on health and 44% more on personal social services.
Meanwhile, while on his own campaign visit in Wrexham - ahead of his official leadership campaign launch on Saturday - Education Minister Mr Miles gave his response to Mr Gething's promises.
He said he was also "passionately committed to an NHS publicly-delivered in public hands". 
"I've seen in my own life and that of my family just how important that is and it's fundamental to the well-being of the people of Wales," he added.
"Our NHS and care services are already better resourced than they are over the border and that's for very good reason - it's because of health outcomes in Wales - and that will absolutely need to continue in the future".
He previously announced that if he became the next first minister, he would start new discussions with patients, health bodies and health unions about "how we help the NHS adapt to respond to current and future pressures".
