Labour has lost its majority of Oxford City Council after a ninth councillor resigned from the party.
Councillor Barbara Coyne is the latest to leave in protest against Labour's stance on the war in Gaza.
The Headington Hill & Northway councillor's exit means Labour is now left with 23 elected representatives, with 25 in opposition. 
The eight who have previously stepped down say Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer needs to call for a ceasefire.
In a statement, Councillor Coyne said: "That the Labour leadership continues to issue hollow statements as we watch a genocide unfold before our eyes is, in my view, unconscionable. 
"I have resigned from the party because I can no longer stand with a leadership that claims to value international law, human rights and equality, but will not condemn clear violations of these by Israel, and call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza. 
"Self-defence does not justify crimes against humanity; no violence against civilians should be condoned."
She confirmed she would be sitting as an independent instead.
It comes after Imogen Thomas, Edward Mundy, Paula Dunne, Duncan Hall, Dr Hosnieh Djafari-Marbini and Jabu Nala-Hartley all resigned on Friday.
Shaista Aziz and Amar Latif announced their resignations two weeks ago.
Council leader Susan Brown said she was "very sad" to hear about Ms Coyne's resignation. 
She said: "Barbara has written to me to say she is resigning on the basis of her principles and convictions over the party's national response to the unfolding situation in Gaza and the West Bank.
"She has however, also told me that she does not wish to join any other groups on Oxford City Council and intends to vote with the Labour Group, working to implement the manifesto on which we were all elected.
"I know she will continue to represent her constituents as an independent councillor and champion causes close to her heart, including the needs of older people."
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk.
