An investment partnership said a £54m redevelopment project would revive a part in one of the world's most famous university cities.The Cambridge Investment Partnership said it had been granted permission to  develop community facilities and council homes in an area of Cambridge.Bosses said the project would "revitalise" two sites in East Barnwell - near Cambridge United Football Club's Abbey Stadium.Several people had objected when councillors considered plans and a charity worker told the BBC that locals had "mixed opinions".
Members of Cambridge City Council discussed the plans earlier this week.People had raised concerns and 29 objections were lodged.They said flat blocks might be "overbearing" and suggested developers were trying to "cram" in as many houses as possible.The Abbey Bowls Club has also objected to the redevelopment, which would see its existing base demolished.Members said they would not move until a new location "with agreed modern facilities" was built.
Nicky Shepard, chief executive of Abbey People – a community charity that offers help to people who need it - said opinions were mixed."I'm not sure where I stand," she told the BBC."A lot of us have mixed opinions. It's a big development for the area – with tall buildings. A lot of objections have been around the height."She said people were also worried about traffic."But we know there's a shortage of council houses and a lot of people are desperate for their kids to live locally," she added."So a lot of us are really torn. It has certainly divided opinion."
Sharon Secker, founder of the voluntary Barnwell Book Library, said she was "really pleased"."I've lived here all my life, and finally some money is being injected," she told the BBC."It has been really neglected of late. I absolutely love that we're getting a new community centre, but am sad about the height of the flats that will be built above it."
Kevin Carter said he had lived in the area all his life and it had gone downhill "a bit".He added: "The shops need a facelift, but they must keep some shops, rather than just build, build, build more houses."
The partnership, which describes itself as an "equal partnership" between Cambridge City Council and Hill Investment Partnerships, said it would develop new community facilities and 120 "modern, sustainable council homes".Bosses said a community centre would also be created.They said there would be a new library, pre-school facilities, public open spaces, new shops, parking and cycle parking."We have been granted planning to revitalise two sites in the centre of East Barnwell in the Abbey ward of the city to provide new community facilities and 120 modern, sustainable council homes," said the partnership in a statement."The new development will replace 18 existing ageing flats with 48 social rented and 72 intermediate rent homes, with four of the new homes designed for people with disabilities."
Follow Cambridgeshire news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
