Kate Bush's Running Up That Hill could win a prestigious songwriting award, a mere 38 years after it was released.
The singer's 1985 hit experienced a resurgence last summer after appearing in the Netflix show Stranger Things.
After exploding on TikTok, it went to number one in the UK charts, and gave Bush her first top 10 hit in the US.
It's now been shortlisted in the "most performed song" category at the Ivor Novello Awards, which celebrate outstanding writing and composition.
The track is up against several contemporary hits including As It Was by Harry Styles, Heat Waves by Glass Animals and two tracks by Ed Sheeran - Bad Habits and Shivers.
The award recognises the song that was played most often on TV and radio, and at concerts and DJ sets, over the last year. Sheeran's Bad Habits won the prize last year, and this is the first time any song has been nominated in two consecutive years. 
Running Up That Hill was previously nominated for best contemporary song at the 1986 Ivor Novello Awards, but lost out to Tina Turner's We Don't Need Another Hero.
Bush has previously won two Ivor Novellos: Best lyric for The Man With The Child In His Eyes in 1979 and best song for Don't Give Up, a duet with Peter Gabriel, in 1987.
This year's nominees are led by Harry Styles, extending his run of success from the Brits and the Grammys with three nominations.
As well as most performed song, the star is up for best song musically and lyrically for As It Was, and songwriter of the year, alongside his co-writer Kid Harpoon (Thomas Hull).
However, he misses out on the album of the year category, where the nominees include Arctic Monkeys, Afrobeat star Obongjayar and Irish rockers Fontaines DC.
Also nominated are rapper Little Simz and the semi-anonymous psychedelic soul band Sault. Both albums include credits for the songwriting partnership of Cleo Sol and Inflo, who are also up for songwriter of the year award. 
Pop star Raye gets her first Ivor Novello nomination for Escapism, the hit single that marked a new phase in her solo career after years of being straightjacketed by her record label.
The track, which depicts a drug-fuelled night out, is up for best contemporary song alongside Stormzy's Hide & Seek and Kojey Radical's Payback.
The awards, which are named after Welsh entertainer Ivor Novello, will be handed out at a ceremony in London on Thursday, 18 May. 
During the show, Sting will become a Fellow of the Ivors Academy, the highest honour the awards can bestow, in recognition of his work with The Police and as a solo artist.  
The full list of nominees is as follows:
Best album
Best contemporary song
Best film score
Best video game score
Best song musically and lyrically
Best television soundtrack
Most performed work
Rising star award
Songwriter of the year
