GENEVA (AP) — After 
Kylian Mbappé
, Real Madrid and Manchester City seized center stage last week, the Champions League spotlight can now turn to shine on others.
The four remaining first-leg games in the round of 16 this week feature the beaten finalist last season, the champions of Italy and Spain, plus the 
team with the best record
 in any of the top European leagues this season.
Inter Milan hosts Atletico Madrid on Tuesday as 
the clear leader in Serie A
 and looking a more solid contender now than on its run to the 2023 final against Man City.
Napoli hosts Barcelona on Wednesday in a pairing of teams unlikely to retain their domestic league titles and seem to have just one chance left to win a trophy this season.
PSV Eindhoven is a hot favorite to win the Dutch league having 
dropped the fewest points
 (four, drawing two of 22 games) and amassed the biggest goal difference (60) in any of the major European leagues.
PSV hosts Borussia Dortmund on Tuesday in a clash of clubs that each lifted the European Cup trophy once.
Arsenal goes to Porto on Wednesday after back-to-back away wins by a 
combined score of 11-0
 in the Premier League.
Arsenal is the only English team in European action this week though its title rivals at home, Liverpool and Man City, each has a Premier League game in midweek.
Inter Milan was an unexpected finalist last season avoiding any English or Spanish opponent in the knockout rounds until the final. An 
unlucky 1-0 loss to Manchester City
 in Istanbul showed doubters the three-time European champion was worth its place.

        
    
Inter goes to Madrid after six straight wins in Serie A helped it build a nine-point lead ahead of Sunday’s games.
Inter and Atletico will put up their traditionally solid defenses against productive attacks this season: Inter’s 
Lautaro Martínez
 and Marcus Thuram have combined for 35 goals in all competitions while the Álvaro Morata- 
Antoine Griezmann
 duo has 37 for Atletico.
There is much at stake for Barcelona and Napoli in their two meetings over the next three weeks, starting at the Italian club’s stadium named for Diego Maradona.
Each trails by a distance in defense of their domestic league title, both are out of the domestic cup and whichever is eliminated in the Champions League cannot qualify for the lucrative 
32-team Club World Cup that FIFA relaunches
 next year in the United States.
Barcelona coach 
Xavi will leave at the end of the season
 and his successor likely will inherit a Champions League entry.
Napoli is currently ninth in Serie A and the only route back to the Champions League for coach Walter Mazzarri, who 
replaced the fired Rudi Garcia
 during the group stage, could be to win this one.
Second-leg games are played three weeks after the first leg.
On March 5, 
Bayern Munich will host Lazio trailing 1-0
, and 
Paris Saint-Germain takes a 2-0 lead
 to Real Sociedad.
Mbappé scored the first goal Wednesday in Paris one day before it was confirmed he told the club he will leave as a free agent when his contract expires in June.
On March 6, Real Madrid — Mbappé’s expected next employer — 
hosts Leipzig with a 1-0 lead
 and defending champion 
Manchester City has a 3-1 lead
 against visiting Copenhagen. 
The other second-leg games are played March 12-13. The draw for the quarterfinals and semifinals is made March 15 at UEFA headquarters in Nyon, Switzerland.
The European action continues beyond Wednesday. Second-leg games in knockout playoffs for the Europa League and Europa Conference League are on Thursday, one day before the round of 16 draws for both competitions.
Friday is when Liverpool and 
Bayer Leverkusen
 re-enter the picture — two clubs who more and more seem to have a shared sense of destiny this season.
Both will enter the Europa League draw as seeded teams having won their groups, leading their domestic title races and with as much attention on their coaches as their players.
Jürgen Klopp has said he will leave Liverpool
 after a remarkable nine-year run and the best option to replace him could be Leverkusen coach Xabi Alonso, who would be returning to the club where he won a Champions League title in 2005 and which he says he still supports.
Liverpool and Leverkusen cannot be paired in the round of 16 but a final between them on May 22 in Dublin could beat the Champions League final 10 days later for narrative drama.
AP soccer: 
https://apnews.com/hub/soccer
