The mother of an 11-year-old girl who was injured when a funfair ride malfunctioned at a country show in south London said she wanted "answers and justice".Silvana-Rose, from south-east London, is still on crutches after suffering injuries to her legs, pelvis and lower back in the incident at the Lambeth Country Show on 8 June.Her grandfather, who went to the fair with her, sustained a broken nose and two other people - a man and a woman in their 40s - were injured and remain in hospital, where their injuries are not life-threatening.Lambeth Council said an investigation into the incident, led by the Met Police and Health and Safety Executive, was under way. Police said inquiries continued.
Silvana-Rose said she and her grandfather were on the ride when they "saw a lady hanging head first and then she was bashing everywhere". "I don't remember what hit me," she said."I didn't see it or anything. So when my grandfather tried to pick me up because we saw the lady, we both got hit by it. "And he got hit in his face."
Silvana-Rose's mother, Loredana Musumeci, said she still did not know what happened and had not been "told anything". "Everyone has brushed their hands of it saying my Dad and my daughter are OK but they're really not," she said."My daughter is on crutches and my Dad is in bed with a broken nose and he had concussion."She said she wanted "answers and justice".
"These people need to pay," said Ms Musumeci."How can you have a malfunction on a ride on a big show like this with over 50,000 people? "Children, elderly people whoever, you know family orientated? And what? Your family end up in an ambulance, unconscious."Why is it not safe? Why?"
A Lambeth Council spokesperson said: “We are deeply saddened by the fairground incident at the Lambeth Country Show, it is really shocking, and our thoughts are with those who were injured and their families.“We take health and safety incredibly seriously, and all relevant safety certification was provided in advance of the event." The council said it was committed to "fully playing" its role in the investigation and ensuring families "get the answers they deserve".A Met Police spokesperson said officers attended the scene alongside the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) and inquiries continued "to establish the full circumstances".A HSE spokesperson said: “We are aware of this incident and assisting the Metropolitan Police investigation.”
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
