A council has lost its bid for an injunction against work to prepare RAF Scampton for asylum seekers.
The High Court refused the application by West Lindsey District Council at a hearing on Thursday afternoon.
The Home Office plans to convert the RAF site in Lincolnshire into a migrant camp for up to 2,000 asylum seekers.
West Lindsey District Council (WLDC) launched legal action last month, fearing the move would affect plans for a £300m regeneration project.
A government spokesperson said it welcomed the judgement.
The local authority had asked a judge in London to impose an interim injunction that would prevent the Home Office moving "materials, equipment or people" on to the land at the former base.
Mr Justice Kerr dismissed the application after considering arguments from lawyers representing the council and Home Secretary Suella Braverman at a High Court hearing.
The council said the Home Office confirmed that no asylum seekers would arrive at the site until after 3 July.
Speaking outside the court, WLDC's director of planning, regeneration and communities Sally Grindrod-Smith said the council would now wait for a court date for their full judicial review application.
"I think the judge recognised that the site of RAF Scampton is significant, is prestigious, has huge opportunity for redevelopment and our case has always been about maintaining the £300m investment," she said.
"The full judicial review proceedings will give us the opportunity to set that out in more detail."
Peter Hewitt, from Scampton Holdings, the developer set to work on the regeneration plans, was also in court.
Mr Hewitt said: "We have put too much time and effort into this to be deterred by one slightly adverse judgement, but the main thrust of what we are trying to achieve carries on."
Sir Edward Leigh, Conservative MP for Gainsborough, said the fight against the plans would continue.
"I don't think that this decision is unexpected or particularly bad news or will stop our legal battle. The council has achieved a great deal, the judicial review will still go on."
Roger Patterson, the Conservative councillor for the Scampton electoral ward, said the regeneration project would secure "growth and prosperity, and deliver a bright future for everybody".
However, he said he did not envisage anyone ever being housed on the site, as the government could only "override" local planning laws for up to one year, before formal planning applications needed to be submitted.
"I don't think they [the asylum seekers] will ever turn up, because I don't think the site is in a fit state to be ready within the timeframe," he added.
RAF Scampton was the former home of the Red Arrows and the World War Two Dambusters squadron.
Following the hearing, The Home Office said: "Delivering accommodation on surplus military sites will provide cheaper and more suitable accommodation for those arriving in small boats whilst helping to reduce the use of costly hotels. 
 "Not only are these sites more affordable for taxpayers, they are also more manageable for communities, due to healthcare and catering facilities on site, 24/7 security and the purpose built, safe and secure accommodation they provide."
Last month, Braintree District Council failed to prevent similar plans from going ahead at a former military base in Wethersfield.
The local authority wanted the High Court judge to grant an injunction preventing 1,700 asylum seekers from being housed on the site, arguing proposals would breach planning control.
Follow BBC East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
