A man armed with a crossbow, who was shot dead by police after he broke into a home, had pointed the weapon at officers, the police watchdog has said. 
Convicted stalker Bryce Hodgson, from Sheffield, was shot on 30 January in Surrey Quays, south-east London.
The 30-year-old had gained entrance to the property in Bywater Place armed with the crossbow and other weapons. 
Hodgson had already swung a sword at officers, the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) said.
After being asked to "show his hands", he later pointed the crossbow at officers who challenged him with a Taser, according to the watchdog. 
Mr Hodgson was trying to break through an internal door inside the property using a sword, having entered via the back door at about 05:00 GMT.
He was trying to get into a bedroom in the house where the residents had barricaded themselves in, the IOPC's interim report added. 
Two shots were fired and Hodgson was pronounced dead at about 05:35 GMT.
Hodgson had been handed a 16-week suspended jail term in July and put under supervision for 12 months after admitting stalking.
A provisional post-mortem examination report found Hodgson died from gunshot wounds to his neck and chest,  last month's inquest heard.
Hodgson was single and working in IT at the time of his death, and his last known address was in south-east London.
IOPC regional director Mel Palmer said: "I send my condolences to the family and friends of Bryce Hodgson and all those present or affected by this tragic incident, including the occupants of the property and officers involved.
"The evidence gathered to date supports the officers' accounts that they perceived there to be an immediate and serious threat to the occupants inside the house.
"The officers, who were presented with a dynamic situation, acted swiftly to gain entry into the house to prevent any further harm to the residents."
As part of its investigation, the watchdog added it would "also examine any contact the MPS [Metropolitan Police Service] had with Mr Hodgson following his conviction for stalking in June 2023".
The IOPC said it had met Hodgson's family and expected the investigation to conclude in the summer.
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
