A 15-year-old boy has been detained for a minimum of 13 years for the murder of another teenager.
The boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was convicted of murdering 16-year-old Rohan Shand, known as Fred, in Northampton in March.
His 17-year-old co-defendant was given a youth rehabilitation order.
Sentencing them at Northampton Crown Court, Mr Justice Morris said it was a "brazen and shocking attack which led to the senseless death of a young man".
The pair's trial in July heard the younger boy had ridden to the scene on an electric scooter before stabbing Fred.
The prosecution outlined how a mobile phone retrieved by police showed the killing was linked to an altercation outside a McDonald's the previous day.
The court heard the pair believed Fred "was at the forefront of the group responsible" for an injury to their friend.
On the day of the attack, Fred had just left school and was walking near The Cock Hotel in Kingsthorpe, wearing his uniform.
He was confronted by the two boys.
The younger boy swung at Fred with a large combat-style knife, inflicting a single fatal stab wound.
The judge sentenced the 15-year-old to life in custody, with a minimum term of 13 years. The 248 days he has already spent on remand will be taken off the total.
The 17-year-old, who also cannot be named, received a youth rehabilitation order after being cleared of murder and manslaughter and admitting being in possession of a knife.
The sentencing hearing was told of the devastation the killing had caused Fred's family.
In a victim impact statement, his father Rohan Snr said: "When Fred was taken, so was my heart. My life will never be the same. 
"When I wake up in the morning, I forget for a moment and shout Fred for school, make two cups of tea and then it all comes crashing down.
"I know Fred would have gone on to do amazing things but now all those dreams have been shattered."
Senior investigating officer, Det Insp Simon Barnes, said: "Fred had his whole life ahead of him. He was about to sit his GCSEs and will have been looking forward to his future.
"Today concludes the criminal proceedings into the murder of Fred and I hope his family and friends will now be able to grieve his loss with the comfort that the person who was responsible has been held to account
"My hope is that other young people now realise the very real dangers of carrying a knife - if you're carrying a knife, the chances of it being used either by you are against you are extremely high."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
