Tributes have been paid to the "inspirational" chief of police who led the hunt for the Lockerbie bombers, following his death at the age of 90. John Boyd was chief constable of the Dumfries and Galloway force when a terrorist bomb exploded on board Pan Am Flight 103 in December 1988, The plane was 40 minutes into its flight from London to New York.All 259 passengers and crew were killed, along with 11 people in Lockerbie.
John Boyd led the hunt for the Lockerbie bombers, as well as overseeing the search for the bodies of the 270 people who were killed. He later became HM Chief Inspector of Constabulary for Scotland.The current chief inspector, Craig Naylor, paid tribute to his predecessor, saying he "upheld the highest standards of law enforcement at a time of immense tragedy".He said: "John Boyd, CBE QPM, exemplified the epitome of leadership, dedication, and service throughout his career."He devoted himself to upholding the highest standards of law enforcement and community safety at a time of immense tragedy following the bombing of a flight over Lockerbie."
For his handling of the criminal investigation into what remains the worst terrorist attack ever recorded in the UK he was made a CBE (Commander of the British Empire) in 1989.In a career spanning more than 30 years, Mr Boyd was also recognised by the award of Queens Police Medal (QPM)Mr Naylor added: "His legacy serves as an inspiration, embodying the virtues of integrity, compassion, and courage."His Majesty’s inspectorate of constabulary hold his wife, sons, grandchildren and great-grandchildren in our thoughts at this time."
Police Scotland's Chief Constable Jo Farrell spoke of John Boyd's "outstanding leadership at Dumfries and Galloway Constabulary".She said: "John's determination to secure justice for the families of those killed in the bombing of Pan Am 103 over Lockerbie in 1988 was matched only by the compassion he showed to all those affected during one of Scotland’s darkest days."His death is a sad loss for the policing family in Scotland. Our thoughts are very much with his family and friends."Former Libyan intelligence officer, Abdelbaset al-Megrahi is the only man convicted in relation to the bombing. He was found guilty of 270 counts of murder.Mr Boyd's death comes just four months after commemorations were held to mark the 35th anniversary of the Lockerbie bombing.
Mr Boyd, who was from Oban, played shinty for Oban Camanachd and Glasgow Mid Argyll in the 1950s and 60s.He was later involved with the running of the game in Glasgow. He was a Director of the Celtic Society for many years before being appointed Chieftain in 2016 and was also a patron of the Camanachd Association.He is survived by wife Sheila, sons Peter and Alastair, as well as his grandchildren and great-grandchildren. 
Follow the BBC for the South of Scotland on X. Listen to news for Dumfries and Galloway on BBC Sounds. 
