General election candidates from constituencies across the Black Country have come face-to-face in a debate hosted by BBC Radio WM. Knife crime, energy bills and the cost of adult social care were on the agenda as the those hoping to be elected to Westminster were questioned by Kath Stanczyszyn in the BBC television studio in Birmingham.Candidates also faced questions submitted by BBC Radio WM listeners via the BBC'S Your Voice, Your Vote campaign.Here are some of the key takeaways. 
The first question about the cost of living was prompted by a comment from Alistair Carruthers, from the energy advice group Energy Angels.He said he knew of tenants in rental properties in the region who were paying for their gas meters to be removed from their homes to avoid having to pay the cost of standing charges, even when they aren't using gas. "People on the outside just don't appreciate how hard it is for some people.  Effectively they sacrifice having hot water and heating in their home," he said.
Will Goodhand, the Conservative candidate for West Bromwich denied his party's policies in government had put people on low incomes in this position. "The pandemic and the war in Ukraine have seen prices rocketing," he said."We've set out to get inflation under control, because that's what we have to get a grip of. We are making progress to make things better. We've taken up the issue with energy companies which were being too aggressive with people."Sarah Coombes, the Labour candidate for West Bromwich told the debate her party had a plan for a new Great British Energy company, owned by the taxpayer. "I speak to elderly couples who huddle around one radiator in the winter, because they can't afford to put the rest on," she said."It's a crisis. People are working really hard and they can't make ends meet - we've got an energy plan for the future."
Mark Redding, the Green Party candidate for Tipton & Wednesbury told the debate that as the world's fifth largest economy there was money available in the UK to reduce the household burden of energy bills. "Privatisation of utilities hasn't worked, it's just opened the door for vultures to suck out all of the profits," he said. "The best way of reducing bills is to use less. We would roll out solar and insulation for homes to bring the vulnerability to the cost of living down."Ryan Priest is the Liberal Democrat candidate for Halesowen. He said the cost-of-living crisis was the single biggest issue facing the country."It wasn't just an international crisis, it was made worse by Liz Truss's economics," he said."I'm proud my party has put forward plans for a windfall tax. The oil and gas giants shouldn't be making record profits. The Liberal Democrats also want to see free school meals so there are no children going to school hungry."
Andrew Southall, the Reform candidate for Dudley, said he believed scrapping net-zero targets would help reduce household energy bills."I have every sympathy for people who are going to work, but having to make choices between food and heating," he said. "We would raise the income tax threshold so people could keep more of their own money. We'd let energy prices come down by scrapping the tax levies and families can keep more of their own money. "

BBC Radio WM listener Daniel asked: "How will your parties tackle knife crime in the West Midlands?"The West Midlands Police force area has the highest rate of knife crime in England.Ms Coombes said Labour would ban zombie knives and recruit an additional 13,000 neighbourhood police officers. Mr Goodhand told the debate the Conservatives would support trading standards to ensure that zombie knives were not being sold. Police and Crime Commissioner roles should be crapped, Mr Southall, from Reform UK argued, with the money saved being put towards recruiting extra police officers. Mr Priest from the Lib Dems said the two biggest parties, Conservatives and Labour, had failed to tackle knife crime and anti-social behaviour due to "under-funding". Green Party candidate Mr Redding said infrastructure such as police stations and youth clubs need more investment. 
BBC Radio WM listener Lemmy asked: "What will your party do to tackle illegal immigration?"Mr Southall said Reform would use existing international treaties to allow people who arrive in boats via the channel to be deported back to France. Mr Goodhand said the Conservatives had reduced the number of small boat crossings this year. As of 23 June, 12,901 people have crossed the English Channel so far this year, which is higher than the same time period in previous yearsLast year, 29,437 people made this journey to the UK, which was a drop from 45,755 people in total for 2022Ms Coombes told the debate Labour would scrap the Rwanda deportation plan, instead focusing on "smashing" the criminal gangs which transport migrants across the Channel. The Lib Dems' Mr Priest described the Rwanda plan as "entirely unworkable". Green candidate Mr Redding said money should be invested in the asylum process for people to be treated fairly and promptly. 
BBC WM listener Madeleine said: "Adult social care is in crisis, what will you do to reform the system and fix the funding issues?"Mr Priest said the Lib Dems were proposing a higher minimum wage for carers. "We cannot keep tweaking a broken system, it needs massive reform," he said.Ms Coombes told the debate Labour wanted to create a National Care Service and use higher wages and improved training to attract more people to careers in care work. Green candidate Mr Redding said the party wanted to create greater career progression and regulation of qualifications to improve the prospects of carers. Mr Goodhand said as a Conservative MP he would seek to secure government funding to improve social care in the West Midlands. Reform's Andrew Southall said his party would offer income tax relief on care workers' wages to attract people to the profession.A full list of candidates nominated in seats across the Black Country is available on the BBC website.Polls open at 07:00 BST on Thursday 4 July, with coverage online, radio and TV from when polls close at 22:00.
Follow BBC Wolverhampton & Black Country on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
