Woking in Surrey has become infamous for its towering skyline and its sky-high debts. But will the changing landscape impact on the way people vote?Banging their xylophones and waving their ribbons, the toddlers at Little Bears music class are very happy. But the adults in the hall at St Paul’s Church are less content. 
Holly Hitchin has been running music classes for five years and said the cost of living is having a huge impact on her business. She said: “Rising energy costs, food. I’ve tried to absorb the costs where I can to be affordable but it’s really difficult and it’s really impacting the numbers in my classes.”One mum said: “Changing the government is most important to me. Healthcare is massively important, and education. "I don’t think it’s been funded well enough.”Woking has had a Conservative MP since the constituency was created in 1950. However the party’s majority fell from 16,724 in 2017 to  9,767 in 2019.The Liberal Democrats are gaining ground, almost doubling their percentage of the vote over the same time period. The party also had political success at the local elections in May. It gained four councillors. The Conservatives lost all of theirs.
Woking has some very unique challenges which may well have impacted on votes in the local election. It is effectively bankrupt with debts of £2bn after the previous Conservative-led council borrowed massively for town centre regeneration. That led to council budget cuts, including the closure of all public toilets, the ending of grants to the Citizens Advice Bureau and the community bus service.The area’s Conservative candidate Jonathan Lord has held the seat for 14 years. He told me he has made the NHS his priority. He said: “I’ve helped to secure a fantastic new diagnostic centre for important tests and scans locally right in the heart of the borough.“I’m banging on the door of the treasury to make sure the government plays its part in sorting out Woking’s problems.”Pounding the streets delivering leaflets in the village of Horsell I find Liberal Democrat candidate Will Forster. He said: “The Conservatives have fundamentally messed up the council’s finances. "I want to be a strong voice for my home town in parliament, fight for a fairer deal for council finances, be a champion for our NHS and stop sewage being dumped in our rivers.”
Over at Poppins café in Commercial Way it is a busy lunchtime rush. But owner Aykut Akar said it is getting harder and harder to operate as an independent business.He said: “It’s really difficult when you’re up against big brands."We would like some sort of helping hand when you’re up against big giants like that.”Having a coffee at Poppins is Labour candidate Ese Erheriene. The party is trying to claw back support after falling into third place in the 2019 general election. She is standing on a pledge to deliver economic stability by boosting growth. She said: “We want to equalise business rates between high street retailers and online giants. "We’re going to roll out banking hubs so businesses have access to banking on the high street." Woking has changed a lot in recent years and the political landscape has changed too. To what extent will be clear on 4 July.Other candidates standing in Woking are:Nataly Anderson, GreenRichard Barker, Reform UKTim Read, Heritage Party
Follow BBC Surrey on Facebook, on X. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk  or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250.
