Members of the public have appealed to extend the jail sentence of the man who murdered Olivia Pratt-Korbel.
Thomas Cashman, 34, was ordered to serve a minimum of 42 years after he was found guilty of shooting the nine-year-old in her Liverpool home.
The Attorney General's Office said it had received a request to refer Cashman's sentence to the Court of Appeal under the unduly lenient scheme. 
But lawyers for Cashman are planning to appeal for a cut in his jail term.
The Court of Appeal confirmed his legal team planned to argue his sentence was too harsh and he should serve less time before parole.
Cashman was branded a "coward" for his refusal to come into court for his sentencing hearing and face Olivia's family after he was found guilty by the jury.
It has prompted calls for a change in the law to force criminals to attend their sentence hearing or face extra years in jail.
His trial heard how Cashman "lay in wait" with two guns to attack convicted drug dealer Joseph Nee, 36, on 22 August 2022.
Fleeing the gunfire, Nee had run towards the open door of Olivia's home after her mother went out to see what the noise was.
Cashman continued shooting and a bullet went through the door and Ms Korbel's hand, before fatally hitting Olivia in the chest.
Jailing him, Mrs Justice Yip said Cashman was "not of previous good character", had made it clear he was a criminal and had "demonstrated no remorse" during his trial.
She added: "His failure to come into court is further evidence of that.
The Attorney General's Office said several members of the public had made the appeal to increase his sentences, and law officers had 28 days from sentencing to consider the case and make a decision whether or not to refer the sentence to the Court of Appeal.
Caught in the Crossfire
Nine year old Olivia Pratt-Korbel was killed when shots were fired into her family home.
Watch now on BBC iPlayer (UK Only)
Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
