A DeForest man will be spending the next three years in prison following sentencing in two cases totaling 30 counts of possession of child pornography.
Brett Berryman, 27, appeared in Columbia County Circuit Court on Wednesday for sentencing in two cases of possession of child pornography in Dane and Columbia counties in November 2015 and January 2016. He could have sentenced to up to 100 years in prison.
The parties arrived in court with a “mostly joint recommendation,” as defense attorney John Jurek explained, with a basic agreement in which Berryman would enter a plea of no contest to four counts, with the other 26 counts dismissed, but read into the record, with a sentence of six years — three years in prison and three years of extended supervision.
“It’s quite clear from reading these criminal complaints that this is an extremely serious crime and it is not a victimless crime,” said Assistant District Attorney Clifford Burdon, in arguments regarding the details of the sentence, such as a request from the state that Berryman be given lifetime placement on the sex offender registry and to have no online access over the course of his sentence. “When you look at the images that Mr. Berryman had in his possession, you can tell that these are children that have gone through some very serious consequences and will be living with them for the rest of their lives.”
Following an investigation by the state Division of Criminal Investigations in July 2015, an exploitative website was connected to Berryman’s email address and a phone number with a 608 area code.
On July 16, investigators met Berryman and took his computer and cell phone for analysis. Berryman’s computer was reported to contain about 100 pictures of prepubescent and early pubescent girls in sexually explicit situations.

        
    
In the 1990 Supreme Court case of Osborne v. Ohio, the court ruled that child pornography was not protected by First Amendment rights on the basis that the possession of such images allows for the existence of the market that encourages continued exploitation of the victims.
“What makes this more egregious and unsettling is that when he was caught through his internet access,” said Burdon, referring to Berryman’s same-day release on $2,000 cash bond, “that wasn’t enough to stop him. Once he was released from custody, he continued in Dane County to possess more of these images — and some of the things in these complaints are just unspeakable.”
Adding to the concern, Burdon said, is that Berryman was at the time working as a school janitor, though there has been no accusation of inappropriate actions toward any children he was in contact with through work.
“It looks like he has a support system here and that is a wonderful thing because he is going to need that,” Burdon said as four family members sat on the bench behind the defense table. “What he has, I believe, is a sickness and I am not a professional in the field of psychology, but it is a really dangerous sickness.”
Jurek agreed with Burdon’s description of Berryman’s condition as “a sickness,” saying, “It is an inclination and disposition that I don’t understand and I’m not sure that Brett understands it either.”
When given a chance to speak for himself, Berryman gave a brief summary: “I’m sorry, I really let my family down.” .
Judge W. Andrew Voigt told Berryman that the situation would likely be different if they were only discussing his Columbia County case.
“If your statement to law enforcement in Dane County that you obtained the additional computer AFTER the arrest in this case,” Voigt said, “this means this wasn’t a bad day where you were having bad thoughts and did a search. The arrest in the Columbia County case did not affect you the way I would of hoped.”
“The gulf between what you have experienced (in county jail) and what you will experience in the Wisconsin prison system is probably unimaginable to you,” said Voigt. “The court is well aware that the prison experience for someone with convictions like yours, probably is going to be different from someone who went to prison for different convictions. My guess is that you won’t be particularly popular.”
Although Voigt has the option of giving a sentence of more than a lifetime in prison and allowing society to have nothing more to do with Berryman, “that’s not the business this court should be in — we can do better,” said Voigt.
Voigt sentenced Berryman to three years in state prison followed by three years of extended supervision with no access to an internet connection.
“Use the time,” said Voigt. “Show your family, show society that the counseling was not just lip service.”
