A professional wrestler said he turned his "failure" at school into a "blessing" as he prepared to headline a fight night at Wembley.Will Ospreay is competing in the All Elite Wrestling (AEW) event in August as the US brand's international champion.The 31-year-old, who has dyslexia and ADHD, said he wanted to fly the flag for Essex and go in "all guns" blazing."There's always pressure going into the ring with me because I am one of the best wrestlers in the world right now," he said.
More than 80,000 fans gathered at Wembley Stadium to watch pro-wrestlers do battle at last year's flagship event.This year, Ospreay will return as its top star - a reality he believed was a far cry from his schooling days.
"On paper, I should be a failure," Ospreay told the BBC."My grades say I failed at school, yet I'm making a living and inspiring people that did not get a chance in professional wrestling."Ospreay said those with learning difficulties should "never see this as a curse" but as a blessing instead."I can feel the urge of wanting to give up because I’ve been in those situations before," he added."But whatever you find that is keeping you up at night... your ambition, passion and love is something you clearly need to pursue."
He started his career in the UK in 2011, before he took his talents to Japan and then the US - where he was later signed by AEW.Despite his international success, he said Essex was still very much home.
"I’ve made my name around the world and I still keep coming home because this place is my heart, my soul and my family are here," Ospreay said. "I love being in England, I just want to remain in Essex for the rest of my life."Last year's fight night saw Ospreay cast among a stellar line-up that included Saraya and MJF.The wrestler said he was just "a visitor" in 2023 but this year he would return as world champion."This has honestly been such an incredible time. It's been all guns, foot right down on the pedal," he added."I do get nervous but it’s about excitement, I live in that area of trying to outdo myself every single time and this is going to be no different – in fact, it’s going to be magnified."
Follow Essex news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
