A man stabbed and strangled his mother to death at her home after she tried to seek mental health support for him, a jury has concluded.
Helen Harrison, 59, was discovered fatally injured in Aspen Close, Market Weighton, on 5 March last year.
Rick Parker, 40, was charged with her murder but was found to be unfit to plead due to mental health issues, Hull Crown Court heard.
A further hearing is due to take place at the same court on 23 February.
On Thursday, the court was told Parker had developed mental health issues following a road accident.
On the day of her death, Ms Harrison had called for an ambulance to get her son some treatment, the court heard.
She wanted him to have a mental health assessment, but the attending paramedics said he appeared to be calm and it was not possible to make him leave against his will, said prosecutors.
Geraldine Kelly, prosecuting, said: "It must have been very soon after the ambulance left that Rick Parker attacked and killed his mother."
Witnesses described hearing what sounded like screaming and the door to the property "flexing" as if someone had run into it.
Shortly afterwards, the court was told, Parker had called 999 and told call handlers it was "definitely a body-bag job".
When paramedics arrived, Parker directed them to the hallway where his mother lay dead and told police the weapon - a large kitchen knife - was still embedded in her shoulder, the court heard.
Two weeks earlier, Parker had launched "an unprovoked attack" on his stepfather after he overheard an argument which had upset his mother, Ms Kelly said.
The stepfather had moved out in fear of his safety after the attack and the defendant was later charged with actual bodily harm, the court was told.
The jury concluded Parker had attacked his stepfather.
The case was heard as a trial of the facts, so the jury was not required to return a verdict of guilty or not guilty.
Instead they were asked to decide whether or not the accused committed the offences with which he had been charged.
Follow BBC East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
