Techniques from judo and jujutsu are being used to train older people in Worcester to fall safely.The sessions, led by the University of Worcester’s Sport and Exercise Science department, aim to prevent them from breaking bones.Falls are the most common reason older people attend emergency departments, according to the NHS. Statistically, one in three adults over 65 will have at least one fall a year.The university is now developing a training course to accredit instructors from across the country.
Every Monday morning, older gym members at the University of Worcester spend about 15 minutes practising four different falls.There is even a martial-arts style "belt" grading system, to encourage incremental improvement."We think we're about a brown belt!" said Martin Driscoll, who attends with his partner Carol."We're of that age - seventies - where we start to think about falls."A lot of it is to strengthen your core... and about almost subconsciously creating a power triangle with your hands and palms when you fall.""The idea is if you have a fall, it's second nature to stop yourself," said Carol Driscoll."I do feel stronger!"
Marc Scriven, the university’s director of strength and conditioning, said the sessions were about preparing older people's bodies for the eventuality of falls, to the extent it became "almost muscle memory".Over several years he has adapted judo and jujutsu techniques for landing and rolling, to create the training programme."My motivation came from a family member who had a fall... broke his hip and went into a care home afterwards," he said."I hope the NHS will benefit from it because the cost - whether to the ambulance service or of hip replacements or broken collarbones - it’s astronomical."
In Worcestershire alone, about 2,000 emergency admissions a year relate to falls, with the cost to the local NHS estimated at £20m. Nationally, the cost is estimated at £4.4bn."We know it's a rising issue," said Dr Kathryn Cobain, Herefordshire and Worcestershire's chief nursing officer, who praised the university's programme."I think it's brilliant.""We know when you got into hospital, your muscles decline... it leaves you at further risk of deteriorating physically."Dr Cobain highlighted how other options were available, including a countywide falls prevention programme. Worcestershire's libraries also offer residents free resistance bands and leaflets with simple steps to improve balance. 
One in three adults over 65 and half of people over 80 will have at least one fall a year, according to the NHS.That includes Shan South, 70, a walking group leader. Two years ago she tripped on a walk and broke her collarbone."Whereas before I’d have tripped and just gone flat on my face.. now I’ve been able to restore myself through that core strength I believe I’ve got now," she said.
Before taking part in the falls workshop, all gym members have their core strength assessed, to check the training is not too strenuous.For 75-year-old Wendy Melton, who has osteoporosis, it is a welcome offer of support."Because my bones are already less dense, I’m more likely to do myself an injury if I do fall."So this is brilliant to have a chance to try."
Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
