The father of pop singer Olly Alexander has said representing the UK at the Eurovision final in Sweden was something his son was "born to do". 
David Thornton, from Sheffield, said he was both "thrilled and terrified" ahead of Olly's performance. 
Olly, 33, will be singing "Dizzy" on Saturday night but, according to bookmakers, he has just a 1% chance of winning.
"But that's fine, it's better than zero," Mr Thornton said.
Mr Thornton said his son, who was born in Harrogate, North Yorkshire, wrote his first song when he was seven and developed the instinctive inflection in his voice from copying pop stars on TV in the early 2000s. 
Olly's first piano also came from Sheffield, he said.
"It was his great grandmother's and survived the Blitz after a bomb went off across the road. 
"Olly was obsessed with it," he added. 
Mr Thornton said Olly taught himself how to read music at 11 and bought the score from The Lord of the Rings to learn by himself. 
He said: "When you watch him, the joy and happiness he portrays when he sings... that's what he needs to do. 
"Nothing will stop him until the whole world are singing his song."     
Olly has described the intense Eurovision rehearsals as being like a "military operation" and said he was "confused and stressed" by a wardrobe malfunction at the semi-finals on Tuesday. 
His mic pack fell off during the second chorus meaning he had to awkwardly carry it for the rest of the performance. 
The former Years & Years singer also spoke about how pressurised the show was.
"One thing I maybe forgot was that it's a competition," he said. "People are there to judge you. 
"I'm used to being judged but it is so palpable. People are scrutinising every little detail. 
"That's quite intense to experience."
Meanwhile Mr Thornton is planning a big party with a marquee on Saturday night - complete with a cardboard cut-out of his son and a "Dizzy" T-shirt. 
Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk.
