When Mark Lajal of Estonia lay on the grass after a tough rally with defending Wimbledon champion Carlos Alcaraz in the first round, Associated Press photographers were present.
They were there, too, at soccer’s European Championship for the quarterfinal celebrations of Jude Bellingham of England and Antoine Griezmann of France. The two players might meet in the final on Sunday if their teams beat the Netherlands and Spain, respectively.
The Tour de France is into its second week and, in the first, AP photographers had their eyes on riders such as Frenchman Anthony Turgis, and spectators in awe of the world’s biggest cycling race.
Major League Baseball continues to produce amazing images, including the Milwaukee Brewers’ Willy Adames scoring as Los Angeles Dodgers catcher Will Smith misses the throw.
The sports gallery was curated by AP photographer Ashley Landis.
The pack rides during the fourth stage of the Tour de France cycling race over 139.6 kilometers (86.7 miles) with start in Pinerolo, Italy and finish in Valloire, France, Tuesday, July 2, 2024. (AP Photo/Daniel Cole)
Milwaukee Brewers’ Willy Adames, left, scores on a single by Blake Perkins as Los Angeles Dodgers catcher Will Smith misses the throw during the eighth inning of a baseball game Sunday, July 7, 2024, in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Mark J. Terrill)
Rebecca Sramkova of Slovakia reacts during her first round match against Marta Kostyuk of Ukraine at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Monday, July 1, 2024. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth)
Antoine Griezmann of France celebrates in the Belgium goal after Randal Kolo Muani of France, shot at goal to cause Belgium’s Jan Vertonghen to score an own goal during a round of sixteen match between France and Belgium at the Euro 2024 soccer tournament in Duesseldorf, Germany, Monday, July 1, 2024. (AP Photo/Martin Meissner)
Turkey’s Salih Ozcan, left, and Austria’s Marko Arnautovic head the ball during a round of sixteen match between Austria and Turkey at the Euro 2024 soccer tournament in Leipzig, Germany, Tuesday, July 2, 2024. (AP Photo/Martin Meissner)
Mark Lajal of Estonia reacts as he lies on the court during his first round match against Carlos Alcaraz of Spain at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Monday, July 1, 2024. (AP Photo/Alberto Pezzali)
Phoenix Mercury guard Natasha Cloud (0) gets fouled by Connecticut Sun guard Veronica Burton during the second half of a WNBA basketball game Monday, July 1, 2024, in Phoenix. The Sun won 83-72. (AP Photo/Ross D. Franklin)
A ''Recortador’’ jumps over a bull in the bull ring during the Recortadores festival at the San Fermin fiestas in Pamplona, northern Spain, Sunday, July 7, 2024. (AP Photo/Alvaro Barrientos)
Spectators watch the pack speed by during the sixth stage of the Tour de France cycling race over 163.5 kilometers (101.6 miles) with start in Macon and finish in Dijon, France, Thursday, July 4, 2024. (AP Photo/Daniel Cole)
Baltimore Orioles right fielder Anthony Santander makes a diving catch on a fly ball hit by Seattle Mariners’ Cal Raleigh during the first inning of a baseball game Thursday, July 4, 2024, in Seattle. (AP Photo/Lindsey Wasson)
Colombia’s Harold Tejada strains during the seventh stage of the Tour de France cycling race, an individual time-trial over 25.3 kilometers (15.7 miles) with start Nuits-Saint-Georges and finish in Gevrey-Chambertin, France, Friday, July 5, 2024. (AP Photo/Daniel Cole)
Randal Kolo Muani of France fights for the ball with Belgium’s Wout Faes, right, during a round of sixteen match between France and Belgium at the Euro 2024 soccer tournament in Duesseldorf, Germany, Monday, July 1, 2024. (AP Photo/Darko Vojinovic)
People get up from their table to watch Norway’s Jonas Abrahamsen, wearing the best climber’s dotted jersey, pass during the eighth stage of the Tour de France cycling race over 183.4 kilometers (114 miles) with start in Semur-en-Auxois and finish in Colombey-les-Deux-Eglises, France, Saturday, July 6, 2024. (AP Photo/Daniel Cole)
Petra Martic of Croatia plays a backhand return to to Iga Swiatek of Poland during their second round match at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Thursday, July 4, 2024. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth)
England’s Jude Bellingham, right, and England’s Trent Alexander-Arnold celebrate after a quarterfinal match between England and Switzerland at the Euro 2024 soccer tournament in Duesseldorf, Germany, Saturday, July 6, 2024. (AP Photo/Darko Vojinovic)
Turkey’s Samet Akaydin, third left, scores the opening goal during a quarterfinal match between the Netherlands and Turkey at the Euro 2024 soccer tournament in Berlin, Germany, Saturday, July 6, 2024. (AP Photo/Markus Schreiber)
Donna Vekic of Croatia serves to Paula Badosa of Spain during their fourth round match at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 7, 2024. (AP Photo/Mosa’ab Elshamy)
Turkish supporters celebrate after a round of sixteen match against Austria at the Euro 2024 soccer tournament being played in Leipzig, Germany, Tuesday, July 2, 2024, in the Beyoglu district in Istanbul. Turkey won 2-1. (AP Photo/Khalil Hamra)
France’s Anthony Turgis celebrates as he crosses the finish line to win ahead of Britain’s Thomas Pidcock, right, beating his bicycle in disappointment, in the ninth stage of the Tour de France cycling race over 199 kilometers (123.7 miles) with start and finish in Troyes, France, Sunday, July 7, 2024. (AP Photo/Daniel Cole)
Brazil’s Gui Santos, right, struggles for the ball with Latvia’s Arturs Strautins during the men’s Basketball Olympic qualifying final match between Latvia and Brazil, in Riga, Latvia, Sunday, July 7, 2024. (AP Photo/Roman Koksarov)
Stefan de Vrij of the Netherlands, right, celebrates with Xavi Simons of the Netherlands after scoring his sides first goal during a quarterfinal match between the Netherlands and Turkey at the Euro 2024 soccer tournament in Berlin, Germany, Saturday, July 6, 2024. (AP Photo/Antonio Calanni)
AP sports: 
https://apnews.com/sports
