TAMPA, Fla. (AP) — Filip Forsberg and Egor Afanasyev each scored twice and the Nashville Predators beat the Stanley Cup champion Tampa Bay Lightning 6-2 in exhibition play Thursday night.
Matt Duchesse and Thomas Novak also scored for Nashville. David Rittich and Connor Ingram each played half the game in goal, with Rittich starting and making six saves on seven shots and Ingram stopping 16 of 17 shots.
Anthony Cirelli and Fredrik Claesson scored for Tampa Bay. Brian Elliott and Amir Miftakhov also split time in goal, with each allowing three goals.
BOSTON (AP) — Jeremy Swayman made 16 saves and Brad Marchand, Craig Smith, Brandon Carlo and Jake DeBrusk scored in Boston’s victory over Philadelphia.
Joel Farabee scored twice for Philadelphia.
Martin Jones allowed three goals on 11 shots before giving way to Felix Sandstrom midway through the second. Sandstrom stopped 12 of 13 shots.
DENVER (AP) — Samuel Girard broke a tie with 3:15 left in Colorado’s victory over Minnesota.
Erik Johnson added an empty-netter for his second goal, and Nazem Kadri, Sampo Ranta, and Oskar Olausson also scored. Darcy Kuemper and Justus Annunen split time in net, with Kuemper allowing three goals on 12 shots and Annunen stopping 19 of 20 shots.
Ryan Hartman, Kevin Fiala, Adam Beckman and Mason Shaw scored for Minnesota. No. 1 goalie Cam Talbot made 22 saves on 24 shots, and Andrew Hammond allowed three goals on eight shots.

        
    
DETROIT (AP) — Robby Fabbri scored twice to help Detroit beat Buffalo.
Lucas Raymond, Troy Stecher, Luke Witkowski and Jonathon Martin also scored for the Red Wings. Alex Nedeljkovic and Victor Brattstrom split time in goal, with Nedeljkovic — acquired in the offseason from Carolina — starting and allowing both goals on 19 shots. Brattstrom stopped 13 shots,
Rasmus Asplund and Arttu Ruotsalainen scored for Buffalo. Ukko-Pekka Luukkonen allowed five goals on 31 shots. 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) — Garrett Sparks made 20 saves to help Los Angeles beat Vegas.
Brendan Lemieux, Lias Andersson and Arthur Kaliyev scored for Los Angeles.
Daniil Miromanov scored for Vegas. Robin Lehner started in goal and had 18 saves on 20 shots. Dylan Ferguson allowed a goal on three shots.
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — James Reimer made 24 saves and Ryan Merkley, Jeffrey Viel and Kevin Labanc scored in San Jose’s victory over Anaheim.
Benoit-Olivier Groulx scored for Anaheim. John Gibson and Anthony Stolarz each played half the game in goal. The each faced 16 shots, with Gibson allowing two goals and Stolarz one.
