A man has been jailed for 30 years for murdering a father while he was pushing his infant son in a buggy. Maurice Jones, 25, of Gainsborough Close, Salisbury, fatally stabbed Tsvetomir Genov - also known as TG - on 22 August 2023.Jones was convicted in June of murder and possession of a bladed article, after pleading not guilty in December. Judge Timothy Mousley, honorary recorder of Salisbury, said during the sentencing on Thursday that he could not "cannot detect any trace of genuine remorse" from Jones.
Mr Genov, 20, was killed while walking along Gainsborough Close - the street Jones lived on - with his 16-month-old son in a buggy. Jones, who had recently moved to the area to live with Mr Genov's former partner, confronted Mr Genov over issues relating to his son and ex-partner, and went on to attack him, stabbing him numerous times. Mr Genov died at the scene and Jones fled, discarding the weapon and his trousers.He claimed to have only had a knife for his own protection and said he had used it out of fear - claims the jury dismissed. 
Mr Genov's family released a moving tribute to their son after the sentencing, in which they said he was "adventurous, independent, charming and had a good soul". “None of us will see his smile again or hear his laughter again," they added. "It is not fair and it is not right. We all loved him so much and we really hope that he knows that, and knows that we will all look after his little boy. "We are so proud of him. We miss and love him so much and the huge holes in our hearts will never be filled.”
Det Ch Insp Phil Walker, of Wiltshire Police, said: “While today’s sentencing is the conclusion of the courts process, the indescribable grief and sense of loss for TG’s family will go on.“I would once again like to pay tribute to them for the dignified way they have behaved at court while having to hear the awful details of how TG, who was a son, father, brother and friend, lost his life." He praised witnesses who were "vital in securing the conviction", adding: “If Jones hadn’t purposely taken a knife with him to meet TG, then TG would still be with us. It’s that simple.“There can never be a good excuse to carry a knife." 
Follow BBC Wiltshire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
