Stories from Caribbean nurses who moved to the UK have been recorded for a museum archive to help future generations "understand".
Audio documentaries from 15 women were gathered as part of the Sharing History project at The Higgins Bedford.
Cynthia Stuart, chairwoman of the Retired Caribbean Nurses Association of Bedford, said: "What we have done with this project, you feel so proud."
The museum said it was "invaluable" to record personal stories.
The association was formed in 2012 by a group of former nurses after they realised there was no record of their contribution to local nursing. 
It includes women of Caribbean heritage who were born and trained in the UK as well as others who came to work for the NHS as part of the Windrush generation between 1948 and 1971.
Miss Stewart was 19 when she moved from Belize to the UK in 1965 after her parents paid for her to train as a nurse. 
She did not see them again for another seven years. 
In 1969, she moved from Southampton to Bedford where she "made my home", becoming a midwife and lecturer before retiring in 2010.
However, like others she had experienced racism over the years. 
"[This project] will tell people the sacrifices that were made," she said.
"It will let them understand a little bit more... That we came to help.
"People are interested; it makes you feel good."
Sam Turton, the association's project officer, said: "It's remarkable how humble the nurses are about their stories.
"If their stories aren't told now, you risk them not being told first-hand."
The recordings for the three-year project, which started in 2021 and was funded by a grant from the National Lottery Heritage Fund, are being transcribed and are available to access upon request.
Lydia Saul, Bedford Borough Council's keeper of social history at The Higgins Bedford, said: "These personal stories... create an archive that gives recognition to under-represented voices from our local community, that future generations will be able to access."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
