Former Justice Secretary Sir Robert Buckland said he was "horrified and furious" over failings in a system designed to protect possible victims of domestic violence. 
Wiltshire Police has apologised and launched a review of more than 3,500 applications made under Clare's Law.
Wiltshire was a pilot area for the scheme, which allows people to ask if their partner has an abusive past.
South Swindon MP Sir Robert was among those who campaigned for the law.
Thousands of applications made under Clare's Law between April 2015 and August 2023 will now be reviewed.
Wiltshire Police said having reviewed a "small number" of the applications it has found some failures to disclose information which could have protected people at risk from domestic violence.
After meeting last week with the force's Chief Constable, Catherine Roper, and Police and Crime Commissioner, Philip Wilkinson, Sir Robert said: "I feel very strongly that the rights of victims need to be heard. 
"To hear this has happened is quite shocking and frankly unacceptable."
Sir Buckland said he had been "impressed" with how transparent Wiltshire Police had been but "a lot more work needs to be done."
Wiltshire Police made a voluntary referral to the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) earlier this year with concerns regarding a member of staff who was served with a notice of investigation by the watchdog and suspended.
The force said it was working with the IOPC and a number of additional concerns also identified.
"As we work to fully understand the extent of these failures... it is vital that we are honest and transparent with our communities," said Chief Constable Catherine Roper.
People who made a Clare's Law application to Wiltshire Police between April 2015 and August 2023 can contact the force if they have concerns.
Sir Buckland was told there will in future be a dedicated officer to run checks through all applications.
"I wanted reassurance that victims were being contacted and applicants were being told if there was a problem and things were going to be put right as quickly as possible," he said.
"I know the police will work very hard to be in touch with and alert people in that position."
He said he is "hoping and praying" that nobody has been harmed, but that it was not clear if anyone had been at this stage.
"I think by the end of this process we must be in a position where we have to know these facts because there has to be full accountability," said Sir Buckland.
"If there is wider system failure then clearly that might trigger the need for a wider review."
He urged people to "keep on making those applications."
An independent domestic violence advisor is being sent to work with Wiltshire Police by the Swindon Domestic Abuse Service.
The organisation's CEO, Jo Eamey, said she was "very concerned" with the possible Clare's Law failings. 
"Our main focus is on supporting victims and survivors of domestic abuse. If people are reached out to by the police, if they've discovered issues with their particular disclosures," she said.
"We can obviously offer one to one support and group work support to people that are affected."
Follow BBC West on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: bristol@bbc.co.uk 
