CHICAGO (AP) — A judge said Wednesday that 
she’ll issue her verdict
 Jan. 15 in the bench trial of three Chicago police officers accused of lying about the 2014 shooting of black teenager Laquan McDonald to try to shield the officer who pulled the trigger from prosecution.
Cook County Judge Domenica Stephenson’s announcement means that former Officer Joseph Walsh, Officer Thomas Gaffney and former Detective David March will learn whether they’ve been convicted three days before another judge is due to sentence Officer Jason Van Dyke, who was found guilty of second-degree murder and aggravated battery for shooting McDonald.
Some key moments in the case:
Oct. 20: Van Dyke fatally shoots McDonald after responding to a call about a teenager breaking into vehicles in a trucking yard. Other officers back Van Dyke’s claim that McDonald, who had a small knife with its blade folded, posed a threat to Van Dyke’s life.
April 15: The Chicago City Council approves a $5 million settlement with McDonald’s family.
Nov. 24: Cook County State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez announces that she is charging Van Dyke with first-degree murder. Hours later, the city responds to a judge’s order and releases 
dashcam video
 of the shooting that shows McDonald veering away from officers. The footage contradicts the accounts of Van Dyke and other officers on the scene that he lunged at them with the knife. The video’s release sparks days of protests.
Dec. 1: Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel fires police Superintendent Garry McCarthy after a public outcry over the handling of the McDonald case.

        
    
Dec. 7: The U.S. Department of Justice announces that its civil rights division will investigate the police force, looking for patterns of racial disparity in its use of force.
Dec. 9: Emanuel apologizes for McDonald’s killing in a speech before the City Council. He says Chicago’s police force needs “complete and total reform.”
Dec. 16: A grand jury indicts Van Dyke on charges of first-degree murder and official misconduct.
Feb. 16: The city of Chicago says it will release videos of police shootings and in-custody deaths within 60 days, after being criticized for refusing to release the McDonald shooting video for more than a year.
March 16: Alvarez loses the Democratic primary to challenger Kim Foxx, who goes on to become the first African-American woman to lead the Cook County state’s attorney’s office.
April 12: A task force established by Emanuel to look into police practices in the wake of the McDonald shooting says the department must acknowledge its racist past and overhaul its handling of excessive force allegations. It also recommends abolishing the Independent Police Review Authority, which investigates officer misconduct.
April 21: Emanuel announces changes to how police shootings and misconduct cases are handled, but draws criticism for stopping short of abolishing the Independent Police Review Authority.
May 13: Emanuel announces that he is abolishing the Independent Police Review Authority and replacing it with the Civilian Police Investigative Agency, which will have more independence and resources.
June 3: Chicago releases hundreds of videos that offer startling glimpses into violent encounters involving police, including the fatal shooting of a robbery suspect speeding toward officers in a van and an incident in which an officer slammed his night stick against a man’s head at a party.
Aug. 18: Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson says 
seven Chicago police officers
 should be fired for filing false reports in the McDonald shooting.
Oct. 7: Johnson releases details of a proposed 
new policy
 that would require officers to use the least amount of force necessary and emphasizes the “sanctity of life.”
Nov. 16: A special prosecutor says a 
grand jury
 has been impaneled to hear evidence into a possible cover-up by Chicago police officers in the McDonald shooting.
Jan. 13: The 
Justice Department
 announces the findings of its civil rights investigation. It says the Chicago Police Department has violated the constitutional rights of residents for years — permitting racial bias against blacks, using excessive force and killing people who didn’t pose a threat. It concludes that the pattern was attributable to “systemic deficiencies” within the department and the city, including insufficient training and a failure to hold bad officers accountable for misconduct.
March 23: A 
grand jury
 adds 16 counts of aggravated battery with a firearm to the first-degree murder charges against Van Dyke in the McDonald shooting.
May 17: The Police Department releases a new 
use of force policy
 that requires its officers to undergo de-escalation training and imposes stricter rules on when they can fire their weapons at fleeing suspects.
June 3: Media reports say the city of Chicago and the Justice Department have negotiated a draft agreement that calls for an 
independent monitor
 to oversee changes for the police force, which is the nation’s second largest. But it is unclear whether there will be court oversight at some stage in the future.
June 14: Leading community groups, including a 
Black Lives Matter
 organization, file a class-action lawsuit against Chicago in a bid to bypass or scuttle a draft agreement between the city and the Justice Department that seeks to reform the police without federal court oversight.
June 27: Three Chicago police officers are 
indicted
 on felony charges that they conspired to cover up Van Dyke’s actions in the killing of McDonald.
Aug. 28: The city of Chicago 
changes course
 and says it wants to carry out far-reaching reforms of its police under strict federal court supervision, abandoning a draft deal on reforms with President Donald Trump’s administration that envisioned no court role.
Nov. 14: The 
grand jury
 that indicted three Chicago police officers on charges that they conspired to cover up what happened when Van Dyke fatally shot McDonald disbands without indicting anyone else in the department.
Dec. 11: The Chicago Police Department says all patrol officers are now equipped with 
body cameras.
March 20: The 
American Civil Liberties Union
 and several community organizations say that they have reached an agreement to provide input into changes being proposed for the Chicago Police Department.
Sept. 13: Lawyers finish choosing 12 
jurors
 and five alternates for Van Dyke’s murder trial. Emanuel and Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan, meanwhile, unveil an 
updated plan
 to reform the city’s police, saying it will ensure permanent, far-reaching changes within a 12,000-officer department that has a long history of committing serious civil rights abuses. The more than 200-page document is submitted to U.S. District Judge Robert Dow for his consideration.
Sept. 17: Testimony begins in Van Dyke’s trial. He is charged with first-degree murder, aggravated battery and official misconduct.
Oct. 4: Jury begins 
deliberations
 after being told that they can consider the lesser charge of 
second-degree murder
 if they do not find Van Dyke guilty of first-degree murder.
Oct. 5: Van Dyke is found 
guilty
 of second-degree murder.
Nov. 27: The 
bench trial
 of ex-Officer Joseph Walsh, former Detective David March and Officer Thomas Gaffney begins. They are charged with lying to protect Van Dyke from criminal prosecution after he fatally shot McDonald.
Dec. 6: After hearing a week’s worth of testimony, Cook County Judge Domenica Stephenson says she will analyze the evidence before 
delivering her verdict
 to the three.
Dec. 14: Van Dyke’s 
sentencing
 is set for Jan. 18.
Dec. 19: Stephenson says 
she’ll announce her verdict
 on Jan. 15.
For the AP’s complete coverage of the Jason Van Dyke case: 
https://apnews.com/tag/LaquanMcDonald
