An Ilkley cafe that supports adults with learning disabilities has opened a photography exhibition to mark Learning Disability Week.The exhibit called Do You See Me? shows images of people with learning disabilities who work at Outside The Box cafe. Amy Day, who helped put the project together, said: "Their faces when they saw them [the photographs] all up was amazing. "They all really enjoyed it."
Outside The Box offers adults with learning disabilities the chance to work and socialise with others with similar challenges.Darren Sanderson, the photographer for the project, said it was "unusually easy" to complete the project because of how confident the models were."They're comfortable here because their friends are here," he said."They know if I ask them to stand somewhere, they're alright."If I asked them to do it out in Ilkley they would probably struggle a bit more, but we got the shot first time, every time."We didn't need to retake any because they felt comfy."
Katie Dawson-Booth, 24, who has a learning disability, said she liked coming to Outside The Box because "you get to see lots of your friends and help lots of customers".As well as providing work experience, the café allows its members to take part in music, art and photography workshops. Finn Gallagher, who has just turned 18, said participating in music groups has helped him feel more at ease with himself."I find it's improved my confidence more generally," he said.
According to Katie McEwan, project manager at Outside The Box, Learning Disability Week (17-23 June) is about raising awareness.She urged anyone who has a learning disability - or who has a loved one with a condition - to get in touch."We're always there to help," said Ms McEwan. "Especially for school leavers and younger people coming into the world, it can be quite a stressful time. "It's nice just to have someone to listen and have someone to signpost and let you know it's not as scary as it seems."Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly known as Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
