A brand new theatre show that brought together songs and dances from hit musicals has been directed by a 17-year-old girl. Gabrielle Hammond, from Magpie Performers in Ipswich, directed Lights, Cabaret, Action at the Sir John Mills Theatre.The show included scenes from 25 other musicals including The Sound of Music, Les Miserables and Bugsy Malone. Miss Hammond, who is autistic, told BBC Radio Suffolk prior to the show that her theatre group, which is all inclusive, was incredibly "welcoming".
"My mum took me to musicals at a young age and ever since I wanted to join a group," Ms Hammond said, explaining her love for musical theatre."I found a welcoming group in Magpies."
She said she never believed she would ever direct a show, adding: "If it wasn't for everybody being so kind I wouldn't be doing it."I'm very excited to see it all come together," she said. "The cast are brilliant."Her mother Kerri said the Magpie Performers had boosted her daughter and "her confidence has just bloomed"."She used to sit in the corner quietly, wouldn't put her hand up for any songs, and now she's directing adults, children, people with disabilities."She's just amazing. I'm so proud."
Magpie Performers was founded in 2016 and offered a group for "anyone and everyone" both on and off stage.Jake Turner is one of the performers and the show was his fourth with the group.He said he considered Magpie Performers as his family."I had really bad anxiety about going outside the house but every Tuesday I go to these rehearsals and meet more and more friends," he explained."It really opened my eyes to what performing really is." Caterina Lucock is another performer who will star in the new show."I like the fact I get to go to Magpies - I get to use what I've got but also in a group that's not going to judge if anything goes wrong," she said. "We can just have fun with it without all the pressure that sometimes comes with trying to make it big."
Follow Suffolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X.
