OTTAWA, Ontario (AP) — Jack Roslovic scored twice, Elvis Merzlikins stopped 30 shots and the Columbus Blue Jackets beat the Ottawa Senators 4-1 on Wednesday night to extend their winning streak to three games.
Eric Robinson and Sean Kuraly, with an empty-net goal, also scored for Columbus (31-27-3). 
“It was kind of a weird game a little bit,” said Zach Werenski, who had two assists. “I thought we played well in the first. It’s a tie game after, but I thought we were patient. Elvis made some really big saves.
“We found some ways to score and to get a lead, and then we played with that lead I thought pretty well in front of (Merzlikins). The puck was bouncing a lot tonight. Just a weird game. It felt weird out there.”
Tyler Ennis scored the lone goal for the Senators, while Anton Forsberg made 32 saves. The Senators (21-34-5) have lost three straight and are 1-3-0 through the first four games of their five-game homestand.
“I think we might be overthinking,” Ottawa’s Nick Holden said. “It’s like we’re a step behind. We’re waiting for the play to happen and then we’re reacting to it, whereas, say a month ago, when we were fast on pucks and fast on bodies everybody was just going, anticipating, getting in the right spots.”
Some poor defensive play by the Senators allowed the Blue Jackets to take a 3-1 lead after 40 minutes. A bad line change allowed Werenski to feed a pass to Robinson, who stepped into the circle and fired a shot off the far post and in at 2:40 of the second.

        
    
On Columbus’ third goal, Nikita Zaitsev failed to tie up Roslovic in front, and he was able to bury a Patrik Laine rebound. 
Despite being outshot 15-8 and not getting their first shot until the nine-minute mark, the Senators escaped the first period tied 1-1. Down in the low slot, Ennis opened the scoring midway through the period after redirecting a shot by defenseman Thomas Chabot. 
Just over five minutes later a weak defensive effort by Zaitsev allowed Werenski to find Roslovic for a tap-in.
Kuraly scored his empty-netter with under two minutes to play.
Notes: Chabot was hurt early in the second period after taking a hit from Kuraly and appeared to be favoring his right arm. Chabot was looked at on the bench and returned to the ice momentarily, then left the game and did not return. ... The Senators said G Matt Murray might not return this season. He’s out with an upper body injury. ... Chris Tierney returned to the Senators lineup after missing the previous eight games. ... Jakub Voracek and Justin Danforth returned to the Columbus lineup after missing the last game.
Blue Jackets: Host Washington on Thursday night.
Senators: Host Philadelphia on Friday night.
More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
