Suitcases dumped at the Clifton Suspension Bridge in Bristol contained the remains of two men, according to police who have widened their investigation to London.The Metropolitan Police is now leading the search for a suspect seen with suitcases on the bridge on Wednesday night. Police believe the suspect, who the public have been warned not to approach, had travelled to Bristol from London earlier that day.A 36-year-old man was arrested at a property in Greenwich, south-east London, on Friday although police said he was not the suspect whose photograph has been released.
On Friday afternoon, police officers and forensic investigators were seen entering a property on the corner of Scotts Road and Devonport Road in Shepherd's Bush, west London.It is unclear if the property being searched was connected to the man police are searching for, or the victims found in the suitcases.One forensic post-mortem examination is ongoing and another was inconclusive, Scotland Yard said.A police cordon is in place and helicopters have been spotted overhead.
The BBC's Dan Johnson said the grisly discovery was made by the bridge's security staff after the wanted man - who had been acting suspiciously - fled the scene.One witness described a cyclist pursuing the suspect as they shouted at each other, which is when it is thought the man's photograph was taken. The bridge was closed but has since reopened.Giles Malone said he had been waiting for an Uber near The Mall pub when he saw two men lifting suitcases across the road shortly after 10.30pm.He said: "We were stood there waiting for our car and a man and another man got out of another car across the street and they were lifting these suitcases across the road for some reason, right by us."

The discovery of human remains has "caused shock and deep concern across our communities”, Avon and Somerset Police's acting Bristol commander, Vicks Hayward-Melen, said at a press conference on Friday.She added that "significant progress" had been made by the force over the past 36 hours, helped by more than 160 messages from members of the public offering information.Although the investigation is being led by a different force, Avon and Somerset police officers will be carrying out increased patrols in Clifton and Leigh Woods. Deputy Assistant Commissioner Andy Valentine, from the Met Police, said: “We are drawing on resources from across the Met to find and apprehend the suspect and I would urge anyone who believes they see him, or who knows of his whereabouts, to call 999 straight away. "Do not approach him."
The man wanted in connection with the deaths travelled to Clifton from London on Wednesday, before taking a taxi to the suspension bridge where the suitcases were discarded, according to police.The taxi driver's vehicle has been seized by police and the driver is helping officers.The suspect is described by police as black with a beard and wearing a gold earring.Officers said he was wearing a black Adidas baseball cap, black jeans, a black jacket, black trainers with thick white soles and had a black backpack.The force added he had left the bridge in the direction of Leigh Woods by the time officers arrived at the scene.
Joe Eastlake, who lives near the bridge, told the BBC: "The fact that this man that they've identified is still at large. I would've thought somebody could identify him quite easily."Local resident Sheetal said: "It's not something that you hear about - it's more like a movie."I feel a bit scared. I think no matter what area you live in, you always have to be aware of your surroundings."
Kika Hedgecock works at Belle de Jour Florist in Clifton. She has always felt safe in the area, but said the incident had left her feeling "shaken". "I still have goosebumps - I can't imagine somebody who could do that. "There's no human compass in the person who has committed this crime," she added. 
There is an increased police presence in the area for "visible reassurance", but officers said they were unaware of any current risk to the wider public. Anybody who sees the man wanted in connection with the deaths has been urged not to approach him. 
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
