A Conservative county councillor has criticised his own party's plans to potentially close up to 11 council-run care homes and eight day centres across Derbyshire.Nigel Gourlay spoke in favour of a Labour opposition motion to further investigate the impact of Derbyshire County Council's plans.He added he would "not have stood as a candidate" or "voted for his own party" if he knew the proposals would be put forward.Simon Spencer, deputy leader of the council and cabinet member for finance, said the authority was facing "challenging times" and "difficult decisions" needed to be discussed.
Trade union Unison previously said cuts to council budgets will amount to about £32m over the next 12 months - mainly focused on adults and children's social care.Natalie Hoy, cabinet member for adult care, said the increasing number of people needing dementia care means the council needs to offer more "specialist services".She added there has been a decline in people going into residential care with residents living longer in their own home. Mr Gourlay told the BBC: "We need to protect the most vulnerable." He voiced concerns around the future of Eccles Fold Resource Centre, which offers day support for residents with dementia and Whitestone care home, both in Chapel-en-le-Frith.After the debate, he said: "I honestly think the Conservatives are cutting their own neck. It is not what Conservative voters want."If you asked a middle-of-the-road voter to close libraries or care homes, after a lot of thought they would say let's protect the most vulnerable."We're running Elvaston Castle. No-one in their right minds would say keep that open but close dementia homes."Mr Gourlay received criticism from his own colleagues during the debate who said he had "attacked the administration" and needed to show "loyalty"."I understand the argument that the council is in a dire financial position but choices have to be made. If these care homes close, it will affect NHS hospitals," Mr Gourlay added. 
Simon Spencer, deputy leader of Derbyshire County Council and cabinet member for finance, told the BBC: "We're facing very challenging times [financially] with some of the difficult decisions we need to have a discussion about."We've done a lot of work in the last nine months [on the finances]... but two things we have concern about is children's and adult social care as these are areas we have little control over because they're demand driven."Responding to Mr Gourlay's opposition on the plans to scale back council-run care homes and day centres, Mr Spencer added: "I'm disappointed but we're a broad church and members can have opinions on local issues."But what he shouldn't do is attack the administration in general and that is the point which I find unacceptable."The consultation, which offers two proposals, is due to start on 15 May and will close on 7 August.The care homes under threat are:The day centres at risk of closure are:Follow BBC Derby on Facebook, on X, or on Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk, or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2210.
