At any point, there are dozens of photographers out and about in Bristol capturing snapshots of life, from news to sport and live entertainment.Here is a selection of images taken in the city over the past few days, covering everything from T20 cricket to film stars, pop concerts and D-Day.
Back for good: It's been all about Take That in and around Ashton Gate this weekend as the band returned for two sold-out gigs at the stadium. This picture was taken by Rogan Thomson.
High up: David Davies from the Press Association took this picture of the County Ground in Bristol during Friday night's T20 Blast match between Gloucestershire and Hampshire.The club has been in the city for more than a century, but could be on the move if plans for an out-of-town stadium, currently at the early stage, come to fruition.
Striding into Bristol: Actor Viggo Mortensen, perhaps best known for playing Aragorn in the Lord of the Rings trilogy, was a special guest at the Watershed arts centre on Friday night to talk about the film The Dead Don't Hurt, which he directed.
Let the music play: Hundreds of care home residents from across the city were treated to a classical concert at Bristol Cathedral on Friday.Performed by the Bristol Beacon’s orchestra in residence - the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra - it acted as a farewell to conductor Kirill Karabits who is stepping down after 15 years at the helm.
Into the blue: Hundreds of students from Merchants’ Academy in Withywood went to surfing lake The Wave this week to celebrate Wold Ocean Day. They were given the sessions for free as part of an initiative to encourage young people to enjoy their local waterways.
A birth revolution: Cast members Sonoya Mizuno, Adelle Leonce and Meg Bellamy in rehearsals ahead of A Child of Science beginning its run at Bristol Old Vic.The play tells the story of Bristol's connection to the first 'test tube baby' and the creation of IVF.
Blitz hero: Joyce Weaver celebrated her 100th birthday at the St Monica Trust where she lives.She was 15 years old when she became a volunteer fire watcher, spending her nights waiting for German planes dropping incendiary bombs on the city during the Bristol Blitz.A native of the south of the city, she would head to where she saw the flames with her bucket of water and a pump to help put the fires out.
Between the trees: UWE photography student Joseph Deveney took this picture of a lone cyclist on the Bristol to Path Cycle Path in Mangotsfield. Using his drone he said it took him two hours to get the picture right - but it was "worth it".
A new memorial: Peter Rowe holds a picture of his father William. Mr Rowe's name is one of many on a new memorial in Castle Park in the city centre.It was created to honour those who survived D-Day but came back to England changed by what they had been through.
We will remember them: A snapshot of how one village honoured the sacrifices of D-Day on the 80th anniversary.St Michael's Church in Dundry hosted the lighting of their peace lamp, seen here on the right with the church bellringers, while long-serving Dundry Royal British Legion member Jim Clarke veteran was collecting at Sainsbury's on Winterstoke Road.
