STAMFORD-A Bridgeport man who set up a sham company to bilk a Stamford company he worked for out of $1.4 million avoided jail this week by paying $150,000 in restitution and promising to pay another $2,000 per month for the next five years.
Jevene Wright, 33, was the beneficiary of a confluence of events, some within his control and others out, that won his freedom when many others have been sent to prison for embezzling much less.
It turns out Wright is a state witness in an ongoing murder trial. He was a defendant when the Stamford State’s Attorney’s office changed leadership and is apparently the victim of his former defense attorney who allegedly stole $100,000 from him. Last, but by no means least, Wright is a person who despite being convicted of a felony count of first-degree larceny is worth more out of jail to those he owes money to than in.
It was those events that allowed Judge Richard Comerford on Monday to give him a suspended five-year jail sentence, five years’ probation and a bill for $2,000 per month for the duration of his probation.
Wright’s private defense attorney, Peter Karaylannis, of Bridgeport thanked Comerford for helping to resolve the case.
“He is happy to finally put this behind him. He is looking forward to moving on and making restitution in the case,” Karaylannis said of his client.
As a condition of his probation, he also must cooperate with the State’s Attorneys Office in Bridgeport in their continuing effort to convict Jermaine Richards for murdering his girlfriend and getting rid of her remains in a wooded area of trumbull in April 2013.

        
    
But Wright’s witnessing skills in the case, in which two juries have hung on the murder charge, appear to be less then effective.
Wright testified in 2015 that Richards told him that if his girlfriend was cheating on him, he would get rid of her and because he was a nurse he knew how.
But he “crumbled” under cross examination by John Gulash, Richard’s attorney, after acknowledging that he was going to get consideration in his Stamford larceny case for testifying against Richards, an article in the Connecticut Post said.
Senior Assistant State’s Attorney Maureen Ornousky inherited Wright’s larceny case when her boss, former Stamford State’s Attorney David Cohen retired in 2015.
At the time, Wright had already pleaded guilty to first-degree larceny and agreed to an up front, lump sum pay out of $650,000 with the agreement that he would continue to make payments to replace the money he stole.
But shortly after, Ornousky said, it became apparent that Wright could not make the payment and the plea agreement was renegotiated and a new payment of $250,000, was agreed upon.
That agreement was subsequently scuttled when Wright alleged in a civil suit that the man who worked out his plea agreement at the time, his criminal attorney Thomas Murtha, made off with $1000,000 of funds he was going to use for the payout.
“Things got complicated,” Ornousky said.
Last year ,Murtha resigned from the bar following allegations he misappropriated hundreds of thousands of dollars of client’s money. Last week, federal authorities arrested Murtha in Michigan on wire fraud charges for stealing more than $900,000 from his clients.
Ornousky said that it has become apparent that that through no fault of his own, Wright has only been able to come up with $150,000 and the insurance company that is now holding the debt has agreed to Wright’s disposition.
“They have greater chance of getting paid back, anything more if he’s not incarcerated. He does appear to be able to be employed,” Ornousky said.
At this point Wright must turn over any payment he may get from the state’s Client Security Fund, which pays back the victims of crooked attorneys, Ornousky said.
With another civil order in place, Ornousky says Wright will have to keep paying if he comes into any more money following his probation.
How exactly Wright burned through over $1 million, still remains a mystery.
Putting it politely, Ornousky said, “The question of where all the money went has not been satisfactorily answered.”
[email protected]
;
