Images of a statue of England captain Harry Kane which was commissioned by a London council have been revealed ahead of it going on display.
Waltham Forest Council allocated £7,200 in 2019 and 2020 to have the work made of the Chingford-raised footballer, but it has been kept in storage since.
The project was approved by the Conservative councillors for Chingford's Endlebury ward.
They said it would go on public display in the borough later this year.
Councillor Emma Best told BBC London: "The statue has a home and will be launched in the coming months."
She said it was "disappointing" that photos of the sculpture had been released early because she wanted "the community to enjoy the full experience of the launch".
However, Ms Best added she hoped it would "inspire young and old alike that whatever your dream, big or small, you can achieve it", when it finally goes on display.
A spokesperson for Kane said: "Plans are in progress, and we're excited about the launch in the coming months."
In February it was revealed the statue was being kept in storage as efforts were made to find a place for it.
Pictures of the statue, depicting Kane sat on a green bench with a football on his knee, then emerged following a Freedom of Information request by The Big Issue. 
Ms Best and fellow ward councillor Roy Berg had originally planned to install the statue on a platform at Chingford Overground station, but the proposal was rejected by Transport for London following a risk assessment.
For reasons that remain unclear, the two councillors scrapped a previous proposal to place it in Ridgeway Park, the Local Democracy Reporting Service said.
A Waltham Forest Council spokesperson said community ward funding projects were suggested by residents and delivered by councillors.
They added there was "clear guidance" on what could and could not receive funding.
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
