More than 200 swimmers enjoyed an impressive summer solstice sunrise from an "oasis in the middle of Peterborough".  The city's outdoor lido, on Bishop's Road, offered early risers the chance to take in a beautiful orange and pink sky while doing lengths of the 50m (164ft) pool.People travelled from as far as north Lincolnshire to arrive at the site for 04:00 BST. Clare Marshall, vice chair of the Friends of Peterborough Lido, said the venue was "like a second home" to her, and moments like this put a big smile on her face.
Andy Sykes, 73, from Holbeach in Lincolnshire, grew up swimming in the sea near Bridlington."I'm not fast but I enjoy it and I have swam all my life," he said. "I swam in the sea, but I suppose as an adult it was just too cold."I became quite overweight and took my health into my hands in 2023. One of the things suggested was moving more... then I found this. "It is such a marvellous pool and to swim outdoors is a real pleasure... especially on a day like today with the sunshine." 
"The first time I came here they had My Girl by The Temptations playing. I felt like I had gone back in time," said Alex Smart, from Godmanchester near Huntingdon.  "It's a really beautiful part of Peterborough and it is nice to be out under the open sky instead of being trapped in a building."Ms Smart was first introduced to the lido by her friend, Sophie Etheridge, who completed a solo English Channel swim powered only by her arms.
Ahead of all sunrise swimmers was Clare Marshall, 67, who arrived at the lido for 03:00 to help set up. The vice chair of the Friends of Peterborough Lido group said it had been a "pretty spectacular event".She said: "I love it. I grew up coming here, it is like a second home. You walk through the doors and it's like an oasis in the middle of the city."
The lido will also hold a sunset swim for the first time from 20:30, with the sun due to set at 21:28. Nina Wright from Vivacity, which operates the lido and other leisure facilities across the city, estimated more than 220 people attended the summer solstice sunrise to swim or take part in a sunrise yoga session. She said: "This evening the cafe will be open, we will have music playing, the pool is heated and we have great floodlights, so people can come and watch the sun set." 
Follow Peterborough news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
