BOSTON (AP) — It didn’t look as if Hanley Ramirez would be able to lift a bat, let alone swing one on Thursday night after he was involved in scary collision late in Boston’s series finale loss to the New York Yankees.
Ramirez not only bounced back, he provided the Red Sox with exactly the kind of offensive jolt they will need down the stretch to make a run at the postseason.
Ramirez had two three-run homers for six RBIs, David Ortiz added a homer and the Red Sox beat the Arizona Diamondbacks 9-4 on Friday night.
It was a much-needed victory for the Boston, which had lost four of five.
“I think I don’t have to be 100 percent to bat at this point in the season, because we know where we are,” Ramirez said. “We’re right there. And it’s go time.”
It was the 20th multi-homer game for Ramirez.
Boston scored four runs in each of the first two innings, ending a streak of 14 scoreless innings by the Diamondbacks’ starting pitchers. The Red Sox took advantage of some sloppy defensive play by Arizona, which committed two first-inning errors.
Ortiz finished with three hits, including his 1,000th extra-base hit with Boston.
“We all know that he’s got pop. And we all know what he’s capable of,” Ortiz said of Ramirez. “Sometimes it’s even better when you promote yourself as not a home run hitter and you’re hitting home runs every time you step up to the plate.”
It was all the run support needed for David Price (10-8), who struck out eight in eight innings to pick up the win.

        
    
Price joined Zach Grienke as the only pitchers with 10 or more victories in each of the last eight seasons.
“I’ve had my fair share of really bad games of two innings or three innings, or not making it through five or pitching into the sixth. So it helps to get those sevens or eights,” Price said. “But I still got to throw the ball better.”
Patrick Corbin (4-12) lasted only 1 2/3 innings, allowing eight runs and nine hits, including both of Ramirez’s homers.
“His stuff was better tonight. The results weren’t,” manager Chip Hale said. “So we’ll have to evaluate what’s going on.”
The Diamondbacks took a lead in in the first inning on Rickie Weeks’ two-run homer over the Green Monster.
That was quickly erased in Boston’s half of the inning.
After Dustin Pedroia reached on an error and Ortiz got aboard with a single, Ramirez cleared the bases with a line drive blast over the Monster to put the Red Sox in front.
Bryan Holaday later pushed the lead to 4-2 with an RBI single to center. All the runs in the inning were unearned, thanks to the two Arizona errors.
Ramirez’s second homer, to straight away center, stretched the Red Sox’s lead to 8-2.
Diamondbacks: Hale said RHP Rubby De La Rosa, who has been on the DL since May 27 with right elbow inflammation, is currently not throwing after experiencing some forearm and elbow tightness. Hale said he’s had an MRI, but that the team has not received the results.
Red Sox: Pedroia left the game after the second inning with flu-like symptoms. ... RHP Steven Wright (jammed right shoulder) threw at 90 feet and manager John Farrell said he’s made “substantial improvement” over the last 24 hours. A start next Thursday has not been ruled out yet. ... RHP Koji Uehara (right pectoral strain) has also increased his throwing distance to 90 feet and will continue to increase the distance and volume based on tolerance.
The Red Sox got Price out of some early trouble in the first inning thanks to nifty outfield work by Jackie Bradley, Jr. After Jean Segura led off the game with a triple, Bradley charged in to snare a short line drive by Phil Gosselin. He came up firing and threw a dart to catcher Holaday who caught Segura leaning and quickly relayed a throw to third baseman Aaron Hill for the double play.
Later in the seventh, rookie Andrew Benintendi added to the highlight reel with a diving catch in left field to rob Michael Bourn of a hit.
Diamondbacks: RHP Archie Bradley (4-7, 4.80 ERA) has posted a 2.03 ERA over his last six road starts, while surrendering just one home run and limiting opponents to a .222 batting average over that span.
Red Sox: RHP Clay Buchholz (4-9, 5.64 ERA) gets the start as Wright continues to mend his injured shoulder. Buchholz, who will make his 14th start of the season, has shined in the bullpen allowing just one run in 8 1/3 innings over his last six appearances.
