GREENWICH — At sunrise, the group stood at the rim of the dormant volcano, sipping ginger tea and looking out over the African landscape. Clouds below them speckled their view.
The city of Arusha, a two-hour drive away, was visible as a small blob in the distance.
The Greenwich group — seven Brunswick high school boys and two Brunswick faculty — was just a short hike from the summit of Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania, the tallest mountain in Africa.
The end of a journey that started two years before was almost close enough to touch.
Six hours before sunrise they had set out from a hut on the side of the mountain at 15,584 feet. Led by guides, they hiked slowly to avoid altitude sickness.
As they walked in the midnight darkness, their helmet lights illuminated just their feet and the back of the person in front of them. The only thing breaking up the monotony was the occasional hiker from another group doubled over on the side of the trail, vomiting.
Toiling on just four hours of sleep, they climbed, zig-zagging up switchback after switchback. The guide said there were nearly 100 pathway changeovers on the way up.
This is Africa
The whole journey began two years before.
In the summer of 2014, Brunswick environmental science teacher Dan Dychkowski and Director of Communications Dan Griffin chaperoned a trip to Tanzania for four Brunswick boys.
Dychkowski, Griffin and the students volunteered at the Janada L. Batchelor Foundation for Children, an orphanage for girls in rural Tanzania, which also runs a local school.

        
    
The students enjoyed the trip so much that they wanted to plan a return trip, but this time they wanted to attract more students to go, said Dychkowski.
Dychkowski’s student Global Citizenship Club, which some of the boys from the trip belonged to, took on the task of promoting a new trip and soon had seven boys signed up for a voyage to Tanzania, this time one that devoted one week to hiking Mt. Kilimanjaro and one week to volunteering at the orphanage and school.
Throughout the spring and early summer, the seven boys worked to raise $10,650 to fund improvements to the orphanage’s solar power system, which could only provide electricity to the girls until 8 p.m.
In late July, after months of planning, the boys stepped off the plane into a foreign landscape and an unknown culture. Dychkowski purposefully did not prepare the students with readings or other information about the area that they were traveling to.
“It’s like a sucker punch,” said Dychkowski. “This is Africa.”
The final haul
The mountain top was first.
Once settled in Tanzania, it took the boys five days to get close to Kilimanjaro’s summit. The grueling climb of more than 13,000 feet in elevation required frequent stops for altitude acclimation.
Though the group was supported by a team of about 30 porters, the hike was extremely strenuous, even for the most experienced hikers.
“After we got to the lip of the crater, I was struggling,” said Dychkowski. He had a headache and had thrown up twice. “At this point, you have all your faith in the guides. ... The guide said, ‘Come on, we’ll get you up there,’ and I wouldn’t have made it without him.”
Brunswick junior Ryan Hanrahan said he felt so ill during the climb “I did not think I would make it to the top of the mountain.”
Five days of straining together under exhausting conditions had produced a familial bond within the group. Though at the rim, Dychkowski and some other group members did not think they could go on, the group’s unrelenting enthusiasm pulled them forward, the teacher said.
Feeling nearly drunk from exhaustion and the altitude, they stumbled along the boulder-line trail toward the summit.
Pure emotion
A few hours later, when the group finally stood on the summit of Kilimanjaro, all nine were overcome with elation.
“It was one of the greatest moments of my life so far,” said Hanrahan.
Brunswick junior Christian LeSueur described the moment as “surreal.”
“It’s tough to really think much at such high altitudes while your head feels like it’s being split in two, but yeah, I’d say surreal just about sums it up,” he said.
Dychkowski broke down in tears.
“We get up to the top and it was one of those moments like Lebron James winning his first NBA championship and (he’s) in tears,” said Dychkowski. “I never understood that until I’m on the top of Kilimanjaro and there’s a picture of me with all the boys and Dan and we’re right next to the sign that says you made it to the peak and my face is all contorted as tears are coming down my face. I understood that pure emotion of accomplishing something that you’ve put so much effort into.”
Despite days of striving to reach the top, the group lingered at the summit for a mere half an hour; any longer and thin air at 19,341 feet might make them very ill.
One student had brought a speaker with him and began blasting music to celebrate. The guides began dancing and doing push-ups, comfortable at the top like it was their own backyard, Dychkowski said. A group of Chinese hikers who also had made the ascent waved their flag and celebrated.
Like tourists anywhere, the Brunswick squad snapped photo after photo. The boys hugged and began the descent.
The hike down was quick, the group said. Skipping the switchbacks, the group could travel straight down the mountain. Their boots slid on the loose rocks making each step more like a downward glide.
They spent one more night on the mountain, and the next day walked nearly 12 miles to conclude the hike. They left the trailhead for a comfortable hotel.
The arduous hike was over, but the trip was not.
A new perspective
At the orphanage, the group traded the mountainside’s primitive huts for a 23-bed house, complete with residents who cooked and cleaned for the group and greeted them each morning with French press coffee.
After breakfast, the group would spend the morning working on the poly-culture farm, observing in the school or helping to prepare enormous vats of rice and beans for lunch.
In the afternoon, they would take Swahili lessons from the 48 girls living in the orphanage and other activities with them — playing soccer or helping with their drama club. Before dinner, each Brunswick boy would partner with a Tanzanian girl to help her practice reading in English.
Though Kilimanjaro won in drama and the sheer thrill of achievement, Dychkowski and the boys agreed that the moments of prayer at the orphanage were some of their favorite parts of the trip.
“It’s hard to truly appreciate all that you’re given until you can see the struggles that these girls go through on a day-to-day basis,” added LeSueur. “After I returned, I really was able to appreciate all that I’m afforded here in Greenwich and at Brunswick. In spite of their difficult upbringings, all of the girls had terrific and charismatic attitudes that really made me feel as though I was a part of their family, which for me was an unbelievable feeling and it made it that much harder to leave.”
LeSueur said the trip overall was the best and most memorable of his life.
“Aside from the memories and experiences I now have to share, the girls at JBFC will remain a part of my life, and I can’t wait to go back and visit them again,” he said.
