Specialists involved in the treatment of breast cancer are taking part in a trial using artificial intelligence (AI) software, an NHS trust says.Doctors at Peterborough City Hospital are using an "AI-powered diagnostic tool" developed to enhance analysis of biopsies.Pathologist Dr David Bailey described the tool as an "exciting breakthough".North West Anglia NHS Foundation Trust said the tool was the subject of a 12-month trial. 
"The innovative AI powered diagnostic tool, developed by Ibex Medical Analytics is the subject of a 12-month trial, funded by the National Institute for Health and Care Research," a North West Anglia NHS Foundation Trust spokeswoman said."The tool aims to support pathologists by enhancing the accuracy of reporting and improving efficiency in terms of the time it takes to review and report each biopsy to either confirm or exclude the presence of breast cancer."Dr Bailey added: "This is a really exciting breakthrough in diagnostics and something we are incredibly proud to be a part of. "I have seen some huge advancements in technology during my career but none more so than the strides being made in digital pathology now."
Dr Bailey said the the "future of pathology" was changing and doctors, as well as patients, benefitted."The AI doesn’t fatigue like humans do and it is a fantastic aid to us as pathologists," he said. "It will make a huge difference to the way we diagnose patients and improve patient experience and care.”Breat Cancer UK says there are about 56,000 new cases of breast cancer in women in the UK every year.
The trust said the AI had  been developed using an algorithm, with input and expertise from more 100 pathologists across the world. "The software runs a series of checks for breast cancer, using technology to analyse tissue samples, helping pathologists detect the disease more quickly and with greater ease," the spokeswoman."It has been robustly tested and evidence shows that the high accuracy rate reduces the need for patients to undergo repeat biopsies and frees up more time for pathologists."
She added: "The AI tool will initially be used as a safety net after a consultant has reported on biopsy slides for the first three months. "Following that the AI will pre-read biopsy slides, instantly highlighting areas of concern, and identifying cancer much faster and achieving a diagnosis in a much shorter timeframe."The spokeswoman said medics were already using a similar AI tool in prostate cases, which had proven successful in the improvement of cancer care in the last 18 months.
Follow Peterborough news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X.
