A father-of-three who was placed into a coma after his heart stopped beating says he now wants to thank the charity that saved his life.In August 2023, 54-year-old Adrian Abbott, from Salisbury, suffered a cardiac arrest while driving a forklift at work.He was rushed to Salisbury District Hospital where he benefited from a range of enhanced Intensive Care Unit (ICU) facilities funded by the hospital's charity, Stars Appeal. Alongside some of his colleagues from MJ Abbott, he will be taking part in the 'Walk for Wards' 10K (6.2 miles) on 7 July to raise money for Stars Appeal.
“I was lucky to survive it," Mr Abbott says."I collapsed and fell out of the forklift with my head landing on concrete.“Luckily, one of my colleagues rushed over and gave me CPR while another came out with a defibrillator." Mr Abbott was given 20 minutes of CPR and two shocks with a defibrillator, which had only been installed in the workplace a month prior.Once paramedics arrived, he was rushed to Salisbury Hospital."The stars definitely aligned for me that day," he said.“I would never have made it to the hospital without my colleagues."I want to thank them, the hospital staff and the paramedics for saving my life,” he added. 
Mr Abbott was placed into an induced coma and spent a week on the Radnor ICU. He was later moved to Tisbury Cardiac Ward, where he spent a further week.While in hospital, Mr Abbott was treated with state-of-the-art equipment as well as a dedicated bathroom, which helps patients with their rehabilitation, independence and recovery. “They looked after me incredibly well. I can’t fault the care I received," he said. Mr Abbott, who previously took part in Walk for Wards after his twin girls received care on the Hospital’s Neonatal Unit, said:  “It is very difficult to come into Salisbury Hospital and not be touched by projects, equipment and facilities funded by the Stars Appeal. "I want to raise money for the Stars Appeal as the charity benefits so many people in the local community.”More than 750 walkers have already signed up for the 10K walk, committing to raising at least £20 for the charity per person. Last year's event raised more than £150,000.
Follow BBC Wiltshire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
