A businessman said he was relocating from a town centre after regeneration led his landlord to double his rent.
Matthew Nicholls moved his Avenue Fabrics shop to Great Yarmouth Market Place in 2018.
He said he expected a rent increase, but the offer from his landlord was unaffordable.
Managing agent East Commercial said the rent had been artificially low and the property was more suited to national retailers than sole traders.
Mr Nicholls said he was relocating again "six miles up the road".
"I've had some sleepless nights about this trying to get my head round what's the best choice, because it doesn't seem like I had much room to negotiate with East Commercial on my rent review," he said.
"The last rent review three years ago went up sensibly, but this one has more than doubled. You're talking thousands [of pounds] it's gone up by, which is completely unrealistic and completely unreasonable."
Customers told the BBC that Mr Nicholls's shop was the main reason they visited the town centre.
Mick Tracey, 70, and his wife Valerie, 65, from Letchworth, were buying net curtains for their holiday chalets in Hemsby.
Valerie said: "We're going to have to go to Norwich, because there's nowhere else to get nets."
Mr Tracey added: "This is a popular shop. We come here all the time."
Liz Kane, 49, from Pakefield near Lowestoft, said: "When I want stuff like this now I won't come here. I'll go out of town."
Great Yarmouth Borough Council, which won Future High Streets funding to pay for the town centre regeneration, said increased demand was an intended consequence.
Chief executive Sheila Oxtoby said: "What the council wanted to do was create interest in the town centre, which clearly it has.
"The investment we've made has increased footfall and with increased footfall then hopefully those properties are more in demand.
"We don't want to lose local traders but I think this is an indication that the investment we have made is actually now starting to pay dividends."
Property agent Hamish Duncan said Mr Nicholls's shop unit was on the market and he added: "Matthew has been a bright, enthusiastic local business person. I would like to wish him well."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
