A busy junction with “confusing” signage was partly responsible for the death of a police officer, according to a coroner. Sgt Paul Frear of West Midlands Police was critically injured when he was struck by a car while walking to work. The incident happened on Tollhouse Way, Smethwick, in September last year. Joanne Lees, the Black Country coroner, said there was a risk of future deaths unless action was taken by Sandwell Council. 
In a prevention of future death report, Ms Lees said the Wolverhampton-based officer was hit at the junction with B4135 Rolfe Street, a section of carriageway which separates into three lanes. She explained Sgt Frear was hit by a vehicle which was correctly travelling in lane two in accordance with a green light. The coroner said the pedestrian control panel next to the police officer was showing red, indicating do not cross. He may also have been distracted by his phone or other pedestrians, she added. However, Ms Lees said she remained concerned about the design of the junction, as it wasn't obvious to pedestrians exactly where they should be looking. "Lanes one and two are for traffic intending to continue straight on and lane three is for traffic intending to turn right in to Rolfe Street," Ms Lees wrote. "Traffic in lane three immediately next to Mr Frear was stationary and held by a red filter traffic light. "However, traffic travelling in lanes one and two was able to continue straight ahead and was directed by a green traffic light."
The coroner said she had been informed of two previous incidents at the location. A police collision investigator also revealed he had found the scene confusing, her report said. A spokesperson for Sandwell Council said it had received the document and would provide a response by 1 April. "The council extends its sympathy to the family and friends of Sgt Paul Frear," a statement read. Sgt Frear had served in West Midlands Police since 2002.  In 2017 he won a chief constable's award for providing emergency first aid at the scene of a double stabbing outside a Wolverhampton nightclub.An inquest in January heard he died as a result of multiple injuries from a road traffic collision. 
Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, X, and Instagram, Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
