Actor Michael Sheen says the Welsh public must rise up and defend its cultural institutions to prevent an "unthinkable" end to the Welsh arts sector.He listed funding cuts at Welsh National Opera, National Theatre Wales and Museum Wales as examples of "an attack on culture" in Wales.His comments came ahead of the Welsh debut of the play Nye, in which Sheen portrays Welsh politician Aneurin Bevan, the architect of the NHS.The Welsh government said it has had to take “extremely difficult decisions” to focus funding on core public services, including the NHS.
Sheen, from Port Talbot, said it would "an outrage... terrible" if a continuation of funding cuts meant an end for the Welsh arts sector and insisted the public would not let that happen.“We are not going to let our country die, are we. We are not going to let it culturally die and wither on the vine," he said."We have to do something about it. We’re not going to sit here and let people take everything away from us.”
On taking on the role of Aneurin - or Nye - Bevan, Sheen said he felt an "emotional and passionate connection" to the Tredegar politician, but said it was also "a lot to live up to".The play was written by Welsh playwright Tim Price and is a co-production between Wales Millennium Centre and the National Theatre in London, where it premiered in April - it will play in Cardiff from 18 May to 1 June.It tells the story of Nye in a series of flashbacks as a morphine-induced Bevan lies in a hospital bed battling terminal stomach cancer in 1960.Sheen said it is now time for Wales to tell its own stories - despite the squeeze on public funding. "Walking in here yesterday, walking onto the stage I got a real excitement about the potential for this space, for plays telling Welsh stories, the story of Wales," he said."No one else is doing it. Where is the great play about the Chartists, the Miner’s Strike, our cultural life and history? "We have to make sure our voices are heard. Even if the opportunities for those voices to be heard are being shut down, then we have to shout louder don't we." 
The Welsh government said: “Wales’ culture, art and sports institutions are an integral part of our society and well-being, enriching our communities and inspiring future generations. "We have acted to mitigate the full scale of the budget pressures on these sectors."However, we have been clear our budget is up to £700m less in real terms than when it was set in 2021."We have had to take extremely difficult decisions to focus funding on core public services, including the NHS. "Based on [the UK government's] plans our budget will be lower per person in real terms in 2028/29 than it was in 2022/23.”
