Youth homelessness is higher in the North East than anywhere else in England, government figures suggest.
Almost one in five of the individuals who applied for, and were due, homeless support from their local council in the North East last year were aged 18-24.
Current data shows at least 3,300 people aged 18-24 were eligible for help last year because of homelessness or the threat of homelessness.
That is up 6% - or by 200 individuals - from 3,100 documented the year before.
According to BBC analysis of the statutory figures alongside recent population data, it shows the equivalent of 15 in every 1,000 local people in the 18-24 age bracket were approved for council help because they were experiencing or facing homelessness - the highest rate across regions in England.
An additional 80 of those who applied for support for homelessness in the North East were 16 or 17-years-old.
Recently, the BBC reported on Rio-Lee Kelly's experiences as a homeless young person in the North East.
The 20-year-old, currently sleeping on his mother's sofa after being evicted over a rental dispute in Gateshead, says he feels there is "no escape" from his current situation, due to shortages of affordable rental accommodation.
Mr Kelly, who receives Universal Credit, said typical monthly rents of about £550 in his area are not achievable for people on benefits and under 35 years old.  
Mr Kelly said the situation had plunged him into "a massive depression", adding: "I'm sure it does for many young people, because you can't escape.
"You can't find your own home. You can't go out and make a life for yourself."
In 2022-23, councils assessed 18,750 people across the north-east of England who said they were homeless, or at risk of homelessness.
The statistics, from the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, show 77% of those subsequently found to be in need of statutory support were under 45 years old, with half of all eligible applicants under 35 years old. 
A spokesperson for the government said its Single Homelessness Accommodation programme will deliver up to 2,400 homes by March 2025, including homes for young people at risk of homelessness or rough sleeping, as well as providing funding for wraparound support.
"We are spending £2 billion to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping over three years," he said.
"In the North East, this includes over £13m funding between 2023-25, through the Homelessness Prevention grant, which funds local authorities to work with landlords to prevent evictions, and offer financial support for people to find a new home and move out of temporary accommodation."
Balbir Kaur Chatrik, director of policy and communications at youth homelessness charity Centrepoint, described the latest figures as concerning - and called on all political parties to prioritise the issue of homelessness.
"Homelessness can have a devastating impact on a young person's life, by not only exposing them to exploitation, but by restricting their horizons and ambitions, making it harder for them to escape homelessness," she said.
"This can't be the norm. We can't continue as we are."
Follow BBC North East & Cumbria on X, Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk
