An arsonist who destroyed his ex-girlfriend's flat and possessions in a "revenge" fire after she dumped him has been jailed for eight and a half years.
Robert Gray's blaze in Gateshead caused more than £130,000 damage, endangered neighbours and left the woman homeless, Newcastle Crown Court heard.
He had previously deluged her with threatening messages after she ended their short relationship.
Heavily-convicted Gray, 51, admitted several offences including arson.
The court heard Gray met the woman online in October 2022 shortly after being released from a prison term for affray and possession of a machete.
Prosecutor Andrew Espley said the relationship was fine to begin with, but he started to get aggressive while withdrawing from an opioid addiction and got angry when she wanted to spend time with friends.
In May the woman ended the relationship but Gray, of Wingrove Avenue in Fenham, Newcastle, bombarded her with messages, some threatening to harm himself and others saying he would kill her.
On 18 May the woman was at a Gateshead pub watching a Newcastle United match when Gray arrived armed with a hammer looking for her.
He was demanding she repay £40 he had given to her for a holiday, the court heard.
The woman hid in a toilet with the aid of the landlady until Gray had gone, and police escorted her to back to her flat.
She found presents she had bought him, including aftershave and a watch, dumped on her doormat, and she was taken to a relative's for the night.
At about 03:00, the woman's downstairs neighbour heard a loud bang and the sound of a fire.
He was able to get his family out and called 999, telling police he had seen Gray leaving the scene.
Mr Espley said the fire "almost completely destroyed" the woman's privately-rented flat with the damage valued at about £120,000.
The woman said she lost all her belongings, valued at about £10,000 but uninsured, including highly sentimental mementoes of her late grandmother and grandchildren.
In a statement read to the court, the woman said she had been "absolutely terrified" by Gray and had attempted suicide since the blaze.
She said she had been "technically homeless" and was staying in hotels or with friends and family while she tried to find a home.
The woman, who was in her 40s, said she struggled to sleep and would often wake in the night imaging herself trapped.
She said she "tried to support" Gray but had "paid the ultimate price".
Mr Espley said the fire was a "revenge attack" that "endangered" multiple people.
Defending, Susannah Proctor said Gray was "deeply remorseful" and while on remand in HMP Durham he had got himself clean of drugs.
She said he had been abused as a child and had a "very difficult upbringing" which resulted in a lifetime of drug and alcohol issues.
The court heard he had served significant prison sentences for offences including robbery and aggravated burglary with a shotgun.
Ms Proctor said he took the break-up "very badly" but starting the fire had been a spontaneous act.
Judge Thomas KC said Gray had displayed "hysterical and pathetic behaviour" and caused "very serious psychological harm" as well as economic damage.
Gray, who admitted arson, harassment, possessing an offensive weapon and criminal damage, was also made subject of an indefinite restraining order.
Follow BBC Newcastle on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk.
