Sporting matches, festivals and theatre events will have live crowds as part of trials to manage the return of audiences as Covid restrictions ease.
Wales' game against Albania will have 4,000 spectators and both Newport County and Swansea City will be allowed crowds for their division play-offs.
The first event to run a test will be an Eid celebration at Cardiff Castle in the next few days.
The Welsh government said attendance would be strictly controlled.
There are nine trial events on the list:
First Minister Mark Drakeford said: "It's been a long and difficult 18 months for the events industry in Wales - for event owners, those who depend on the sector for the work - and for those who long to see the return of live events to Wales."
He said the pilots would bring Wales "a step closer" to a return to live events. A testing protocol and risk assessment would be individually tailored for each event.
"These events are very different in nature and location but access of attendees - whether participants or spectators - is strictly controlled by the organisers and agreed in advance," he said.
"We're asking people to celebrate Eid differently again this year. I very much hope that celebrations at the castle are enjoyed by those with tickets.
"If you don't have a ticket please celebrate safely with your immediate household or within support bubbles."
The Muslim Council of Wales said the inclusion of the Eid event showed recognition for the Muslim community and was "symbolically important".
Aysha Rajak, 26, from Newport, described being "so excited" when she heard about the Eid celebration at the castle.
"This is my second Ramadan and Eid in Wales and to be able to experience that with my family, go out, see Cardiff Castle and do it in such an iconic place is amazing.
"It's just lovely to know that we can all get together, be outside, enjoy ourselves and have a normal Eid with everybody else, not just sitting at home being cooped up."
She said worshipers had two Covid tests before receiving tickets to attend, adding: "I'm really glad we are following these guidelines and making sure everybody's safe."
Newport County fan Martyn Phillips said it has been one of the "most boring years" as a football fan. 
He added: "It's been very unemotional watching from a laptop so this is, for every football fan, going to be huge, to be able to enjoy a game again.
"The worry now for the fans is how many people are going to be allowed in the stadium and whether they'll get a ticket, because everyone's going to want to go."
David Wilson, director of Theatr Brycheiniog in Brecon, said he was "incredibly excited" the theatre will host test events outdoors in June.
"It's been a very difficult year for the whole of the performing arts industry and all the events industry so we're really pleased- this is the first step of getting back to it," he said.
"Outdoor is the lowest risk, at this time, so we're delighted that's the first thing we're doing. We'd be even more pleased to get back to indoor."
