GOSHEN : Amber Pasztor told a judge Thursday she was sorry for smothering her two children to death in September.
“I do believe you’re sorry,” Elkhart County Circuit Court Judge Michael A. Christofeno told Pasztor before sentencing her to 130 years in prison. “But that unfortunately does not undo this horrific act.”
Pasztor, 30, pleaded guilty but mentally ill in Elkhart County on June 1 to two counts of murder in the deaths of her two children, whom she abducted in Allen County in September.
The judge handed Pasztor sentences of 65 years for each count, ordering her to serve the sentences back to back.
Pasztor, who is bipolar and schizophrenic, will receive mental health treatment within the Indiana Department of Correction, Christofeno said.
The judge cited Pasztor’s remorse and the fact she took responsibility for her actions as mitigating factors. The judge cited her use of alcohol, marijuana and synthetic marijuana and three prior felony convictions as aggravating factors.
Elkhart County Prosecutor Vicki E. Becker and defense lawyer Peter C. Soldato said the plea deal Pasztor was given was the right resolution to a tragic case.
“It’s a sad case all the way around,” Soldato told reporters after the sentencing hearing.
He told the judge the killings were the result of Pasztor’s mental illness and drug use.
“Essentially, she poisoned herself over the course of two years,” Soldato said.

        
    
Becker agreed. Moreover, she and Christofeno said Pasztor did not take advantage of programs offered in the past that would have helped her.
“She made a choice based on her own irrational and illogical perception,” Becker said. “She claims she was not high that day. I find that very hard to believe.”
When Christofeno asked Pasztor if she had anything to say in her defense, “I’m sorry” was all she said.
As part of her plea agreement with prosecutors, Pasztor waived her right to appeal her conviction in the deaths of her children.
Becker said Pasztor will soon be taken to Fort Wayne where she’ll face an Allen County murder charge in the death of Frank Macomber, who was killed around the same time she killed her children.
Pasztor underwent three psychological evaluations to determine whether she was able to assist with her defense. Christofeno ruled June 1 that Pasztor is competent to stand trial in the deaths of her children.
Pasztor raided her father and stepmother’s home on Goshen Road the morning of Sept. 26 and kidnapped Liliana Hernandez, 7, and Rene Pasztor, 6, leaving behind her younger son, Juelz Santos Aguirre, 3.
Pasztor’s father, Ricky Green, and his wife, Emily Lasko-Green, had custody of the children.
While an Amber Alert was in effect, Pasztor drove her children to Elkhart, eventually parking behind the Elkhart Police Department. She flagged down an Elkhart police officer and led him to the tan Mercury Mystique where the officer found the two dead children. She told investigators she smothered them with her hands.
A cartel wanted to slaughter her family, Pasztor told police, and she preferred they die at her hands.
Pasztor told police she shot Macomber, 65, with a rifle he bought for her. His body was found the morning of Sept. 27 in the woods close to the Goshen Road home where Pasztor’s father and stepmother live.
Pasztor and Macomber were once neighbors at Countryside Village mobile home park on Fort Wayne’s northwest side.
She told police Macomber was working with cartels and that “she killed Frank to send a message to the cartels not to mess with her,” according to a probable cause affidavit filed in Allen Superior Court.
Pasztor was charged June 13 in Macomber’s death. No hearings are scheduled in that case, according to online court records.
Whitley County Sheriff Marc Gatton said Pasztor was questioned years ago as the girlfriend of Rene Hernandez of Fort Wayne, the father of her two children. He was found dead with his hands taped behind his back Jan. 29, 2010, in the woods near Whitley County roads 400 South and 700 East.
She was pregnant at the time, Gatton said. She was not charged in that slaying.
[email protected]
