With the latest panda additions to the San Diego Zoo, 'panda diplomacy' is back in the vernacular. Here's what it means and why it's so important.
Just two months after US President Richard Nixon made his historic journey to China in 1972, ending more than two decades of tension between the two countries, an 18-month-old pair of pandas arrived in the United States as a gift. Sent by Premier Zhou Enlai, the pandas represented China's latest use of "panda diplomacy".
A practice that dates back as far as the Tang Dynasty, which ruled from 618 through 907 CE, panda diplomacy – or sending pandas as diplomatic gifts – appears to be in play once again in 2024. Last week, the China Wildlife Conservation Association announced that it has finalised agreements to loan some of China's beloved giant pandas to zoos in Spain and the United States, according to Xinhua News Agency, China's official news organization.
"Relevant Chinese institutions have signed agreements with the Madrid Zoo in Spain and the San Diego Zoo in the United States on a new round of international cooperation in the protection of giant pandas," Mao Ning, spokesperson for the Chinese foreign ministry, said during a press briefing, according to Reuters.The news follows China's 2023 recall of three giant pandas that had been living at the National Zoo in Washington D.C. and one living at the Memphis Zoo in Tennessee – moves that left only four pandas in the United States (all at the zoo in Atlanta, Georgia). Similarly, in the UK, two giant pandas that had lived at the Edinburgh Zoo since 2011 were recalled in 2023.
Those decisions arrived at a time when relations between Beijing and the West were on rocky ground. China and the US, for example, were navigating some particularly tense security, humanitarian and economic challenges, according to an article about animal diplomacy from Georgetown University's Barbara K. Bodine, a distinguished professor of diplomacy and director of Georgetown's Institute for the Study of Diplomacy.
The renewed flurry of panda diplomacy may be part of China’s pursuit of “soft power," explains Susan Brownell, a professor from the history department at the University of Missouri-St. Louis and a member of the National Committee on US-China Relations, which works to promote understanding and cooperation between the two countries. With contract ink drying and panda diplomats packing their bags, a new chapter of cuddly diplomacy may be beginning.
While the 1972 arrival of Hsing-Hsin and Ling-Ling to the United States during the Nixon administration is among the most well-known examples of panda diplomacy, it's certainly not the first. 
In 1941, two pandas were sent to the United States just before the country entered World War Two – they were widely viewed as a "thank you" gift from China. During a ceremony announcing the gift, Mme. Chiang Kai-shek said the pandas were a way of thanking "China's American friends for alleviating the suffering of our people and binding our wounds."
Later, during the 1950s, Chairman Mao was known to send pandas as gifts to the country's communist allies, which included North Korea and the Soviet Union.
More recently, after the March 2014 disappearance of Malaysian Airlines Flight 370 strained relations between China and Malaysia, the arrival of two of China's beloved pandas that same year in Malaysia was seen as a peace offering.
As for what the pandas may be promising today, Brownell suggests an effort on China’s part to emulate what sets the United States apart on the world stage. "They know very well that their growing economic and military strength is viewed as a threat, particularly by the political leadership of the US," explained Brownell. "They also understand that a big factor [of US] influence in the world comes from the appeal of its cultural products, whether it's Hollywood movies or NBA stars."
"Their use of the lovable pandas, as well as the state promotion of Olympic sports, is part of their effort to develop that kind of appeal and influence in the world," Brownell added.
Political and diplomatic implications aside, the San Diego Zoo is eagerly preparing for the arrival of a new set of giant pandas. The habitat that housed its last panda inhabitants, who were returned to China in 2019 after more than 20 years at the zoo, is being readied and refreshed for the big arrival.
"We're doubling the size of the original habitat and we're renovating another habitat nearby and they will connect together," Greg Vicino, vice president of wildlife care at the San Diego Zoo, said.
The last time the zoo hosted pandas from China it was an incredibly successful program – both in terms of the conservation efforts for pandas and the relationships that were built with Chinese colleagues.
The zoo was home to giant pandas from 1996 until their departure in 2019 and during that time a total of six pandas were born. Bai Yun and Shi Shi gave birth to the first panda cub to survive in captivity in the United States, and later Bi Yung and Gao Gao gave birth to five more cubs. There was also a substantial body of research published and a genuine connection built between conservationists in San Diego and China.
"There was a steady flow back and forth [between San Diego and China] of researchers, scientists and graduate students coming here and going there," Vicino said. "That collaboration – when you look at the list of publications that came out of that – is overwhelming. It was a big win for conservation."
And ultimately, says Vicino, conservation boils down to relationships. "I can tell you from my own experience, having worked in this field for over 20 years now, that I naively thought conservation was about saving habitats and saving species. But I immediately found out it is about forming relationships." Joking that diplomacy is something he’ll “leave to the pros”, Vicino adds: "This is really about one-on-one contact between true conservationists from different countries."
Though it remains unclear when exactly the new pandas will arrive in San Diego, there's talk that the zoo may get descendants of its previous residents Bi Yung and Gao Gao. If that turns out to be the case, Vicino says it would be a fitting way for San Diego to continue its conservation efforts with the bears.
"It would be really great for us to be able to come full circle on that legacy," said Vicino.
Join more than three million BBC Travel fans by liking us on Facebook, or follow us on Twitter and Instagram.
If you liked this story, sign up for The Essential List newsletter – a handpicked selection of features, videos and can't-miss news delivered to your inbox every Friday.
