Coventry's modernist architecture, much of which is at risk, is being celebrated in a new exhibition.Paul Catherall's linocut prints showing landmarks such as the Bull Yard and railway station form part of the show at Coventry Cathedral. Each building featured, apart from the cathedral,  is set to be "redeveloped, closed, uncertain or under threat," he said.The city has undergone a lot of redevelopment in recent years. About 1,500 homes are set to be built as part of a £450m scheme affecting City Arcade, Market Way, Shelton Square and Hertford Street.  
Some public art, such as the listed Three Tuns mural, will be moved and new pieces created, said developers Shearer Property Regen. “We understand the importance of preserving public art and heritage features for the enjoyment of future generations," it added. In November 1940, German bombers destroyed much of Coventry's city centre. It was rebuilt in what was then thought of as a bold, modern style.Redevelopment of those buildings has meant some have been lost or left empty. "I'm not a slave to thinking everything had to be kept," Mr Catherall said."But it's definitely turned into a tribute to what could be completely lost." His prints showed the buildings "in their best life," he added, "to give them a bit of their original glamour". 
One print shows the city's Grade II listed sports and leisure centre building which closed four years ago and remains empty. "It was a real groundbreaking piece of architecture, it got glowing reviews when it was built and for it to be left is just really sad," said the print maker. Coventry City Council said it was still working to secure an occupier for the site and was spending about £400,000 a year to maintain and secure it.
For his prints to be shown in the cathedral was "amazing," said Mr Catherall who grew up in the city. "I honestly did not walk around aged 13 or 14 admiring the brutalist architecture, but your surroundings seep into you," he added.
The London-based artist has previously been commissioned by Transport for London, The Royal Shakespeare Company and Penguin Books. Sent From Coventry is on display at Coventry Cathedral until 7 July. 
Follow BBC Coventry & Warwickshire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
