The Princess of Wales "will be thrilled", Queen Camilla has told well-wishers, after she received homemade posters on a trip to Shrewsbury. 
The Queen thanked two girls at a farmers' market for making signs, telling one: "I shall send this off to Catherine, she'll be thrilled."
The princess revealed on Friday she is in the early stages of treatment after a cancer diagnosis.
She said it was a "huge shock" but said she was "getting stronger every day".
The Queen stopped to say hello to 10-year-old Harriet Waterson and her sister Lois, aged six, who both handed over posters decorated with stars and hearts.
Harriet apologised, saying "I'm sorry they're a bit creased" but the Queen crouched down to talk to them and said: "I'll take them carefully and we'll make sure she knows they're coming".
The girls' mother Lucy Waterson, 44, later said: "We didn't think she would get to see them, to be honest, and she said she would certainly pass on her best wishes." 
The visit to Shrewsbury was the Queen's first royal engagement with members of the public since Catherine revealed her diagnosis.
Details of the cancer have not been disclosed, but Kensington Palace said it was confident the princess will make a full recovery.
Catherine had major abdominal surgery in January, but subsequent tests found cancer had been present, leading to doctors advising a course of preventative chemotherapy. 
The princess said she and William had been "doing everything we can to process and manage this privately for the sake of our young family".
In a video statement, she added: "It has taken us time to explain everything to George, Charlotte and Louis in a way that is appropriate for them, and to reassure them that I am going to be okay."
King Charles and the Queen were informed of the news about Catherine's health prior to Friday's announcement.
A Buckingham Palace spokesperson said the King was "so proud of Catherine for her courage in speaking as she did".
Queen Camilla has carried out a string of royal engagements in recent weeks, increasing her workload while the King has temporarily stepped back from public duties while he is treated for cancer.
In Shrewsbury, the Queen toured the farmers' market, stopping at stalls selling wine, sausage rolls and honey, while she was presented with a bottle of Shrewsbury gin.
