MICHIGAN CITY — In a season of turmoil and uncertainty, Megan Gushrowski provided a sense of stability for the Michigan City gymnastics program.
“She a part of the record-breaking team. They broke the school record at sectionals. And I know a lot of people emphasized the small team, the new coaches. I think Megan, being our lead scorer, she set an example of what the other girls need to do in order to score well,” first-year Wolves coach Katlynn Schwanke said during at interview at the News-Dispatch office on Tuesday. “Megan, seriously, was the hardest working girl in that gym.
“I had to physically pull her out of practice. ‘Just one more turn, just five more turns,’ is what she would ask. It was the same way the week before regionals.”
Gushrowski, a senior, led Michigan City to a third-place finish at the Chesterton Invitational. The Wolves finished fourth at the Chesterton Sectional, but Gushrowski advanced to the Valparaiso Regional to compete on balance beam and uneven bars.
She is The Herald-Argus Gymnast of the Year.
“My mindset at meets this year was just to go in and do the best routines that I can and not worry too much about the score,” Gushrowski said Tuesday. “My beam routine at regionals was, like, the best routine I’d ever done. I was really proud of that one. It was a good way to end it.”
Training for regionals proved to be its own unique challenge. While teammates Caroline Weber and Meghan Miller had each advanced in one event, none of them overlapped.

        
    
“I had the other two teammates with me, but I was the only one in my events,”
Gushrowski said. “I go from doing beam all by myself to going straight to bars all by myself. It was a lot. You’re the only one taking turns.”
The Wolves practice at Platinum Gymnastics. Slipping into the schedule, working around youth classes, meant the three Michigan City gymnasts often weren’t even in the gym at the same time.
“It was pretty crazy in there. We had three kids going in four events,” Schwanke said. “Trying to work them into the gym, a lot of times they didn’t practice together,” Schwanke said. “We’d have one come in after school, one come in at 5 (p.m.) and one come in at 7. They were very staggered that week. I think that’s a hard thing, to not be working out with your team.”
Even with teammates advancing and other attending the meet as spectators, competing in regionals as an individual can be a lonely experience. It helped, then, that Gushrowski’s close friend Sarah Zygmuntowski — a La Porte senior — had qualified in the floor exercise. The two were able to support each other during their routines and comfort each other when it became clear neither would be advancing to the state finals.
“All four years, we’ve made this journey together. I don’t know if I would have made it this last year without her,” Gushrowski said. “Even when she’s not at our practices, she’s there for me. She gave me a note hanging in my locker that I had at the gym, so it’s like she’s kind of there.
“It was nice having her there for me (at regionals). After she did her floor routine and she felt like she wasn’t going to advance, I was there for her. And after I did my bars routine and knew it was over for me, she was there for me.”
Gushrowski’s career has been a roller coaster ride — full of ups and downs, twists and turns. She broke her leg before competition began her freshman year, and dealt with three coaches during her four years in the program. But arguably nothing changed as much as Gushrowski’s confidence and abilities.
“It’s crazy how much she improved,” Schwanke said. “We looked back at her old score sheets, it was 7s, low 8s. Now, if she didn’t score a 9, she’s not happy and we’re all like, ‘What the heck?’ It was low scores, no difficulty. She’s a new kid from when she started high school gymnastics.”
Schwanke was an assistant coach for Kelly Reiser last year before taking over the program before this season. That bit of familiarity helped the transition go more smoothly as Gushrowski understood what to expect from Schwanke and what Schwanke expected from her.
“It was kind of a lot of pressure. This one, she’s a difficult one,” Schwanke said, laughing. “We’d never, like, butt heads or not get along, but I, personally, as a gymnast, only had one coach. And that’s the only person I’d ever want to respond to, to be coached by, the only person I trusted.
“When you’re doing higher-level skills, a lot of times those involved spotting. Your life is sometimes potentially in their hands. It is a lot of pressure to figure out how you can get a kid to trust you. That’s a difficult thing. There’s a lot that goes into it.”
Gushrowski is the middle sister of three who have competed for the Wolves — Kristin is one year older and Emily is two years younger. There was only one meet at which all three performed — last year’s Chesterton Invitational, Kristin’s first meet back from an ACL injury, where Emily broke her thumb.
“We only got to compete all together once,” Megan Gushrowski said. “But having them on the team was really having fun. We were able to support each other.”
Being a senior, Gushrowski had many people asking her about her plans for the future. She repeated the answer that she’d figure it out after gymnastics.
Now, gymnastics is over. She wants to major in pre-pharmacy and is going to start taking college visits soon. She’ll carry the memories of the season with her — including those that weren’t formed inside the gym.
“Senior night was pretty good. It was a lot of fun, and I had a good meet,” Gushrowski said. “A lot of my friends and family were there. It felt good because they support me, so it was nice for them to see me compete and I actually did well on the same day.
“But I always like when we have our Christmas party. We had it at Schwanke’s house this year. We decorated cookies and ate cornbread — I love cornbread. It was fun.”
