A woman who was diagnosed with diabetes at the age of 54 said she was not expecting the news at that age. Lisa Sutton, from Haddiscoe on the Norfolk/Suffolk border, was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes following a routine GP appointment.She said the diagnosis was a shock at the time after thinking the condition mainly affected young people.Along with her husband, Marcus Sutton, she has walked the length of the country from Land's End to John O'Groats to raise money and awareness for Diabetes UK.
In June 2023, Mrs Sutton, now 55, said a finger prick to check her blood during a GP appointment revealed her sugar glucose levels were high.
The symptoms she now recognised included going to the toilet more during the night, drinking more water - and weight loss.At the time she put these down to her living a healthy and more active lifestyle."I hadn't thought of myself as ill but now I know I was, because since treatment I don't get up at night, I don't drink as much water as I used to drink and my weight has stabilised," she added."At the age of 54 I wasn't expecting that diagnosis."It's unusual but not impossible. It does happen to anyone at any age."
She was soon supported by the Elsie Bertram Diabetes team at the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital."We didn't have much time to think about it, it just happened," Mr Sutton, 58, who is originally from Suffolk, said."From one week to the next that just changed everything."The NHS team taught Mrs Sutton how to inject insulin as well as monitor her glucose levels, which she will now have to do for the rest of her life. She now has a continuous glucose monitor - a small device that sits on the back of her arm which tests her blood and is connected to an app on her phone.
Prior to the diagnosis, the couple had planned to walk from Land's End in Cornwall up to John O'Groats in Caithness, Scotland, but wanted to raise awareness of diabetes following Mrs Sutton's diagnosis.They had three aims for the walk - complete the challenge, raise money for Diabetes UK and raise awareness of the importance of regular GP checks.They set out on 23 April and the journey took 79 days, which they documented on a dedicated Facebook page.In total the couple walked 1,144.7 miles (1842.2 km), covering an average of 14.9 miles a day.Throughout the journey, Mrs Sutton had to ensure she was monitoring her glucose sugar levels which she said were impacted during difficult sections of the route. 
They completed the walk on 18 July and said it was an emotional moment."When we could see that we were getting to the end we had to stop and compose ourselves," Mrs Sutton explained."I said to Marcus, 'I won't cry as long as you don't ask me how I feel'."He said, 'I'll be alright unless you start crying', and in the end we both were."Mr Sutton said he was proud of his wife."[Diabetes] doesn't alter what you can do, it changes how you do it," he added."She very driven to do things and very in control which it makes it a lot easier for me."When you first learn about the condition some frightening results can happen but she manages it very well."
The couple initially set out to raise £1,500 but managed to reach the target before they even started the challenge.So far they have raised more than £6,100.Mrs Sutton said she was grateful for Diabetes UK who provided her with accurate information about her diagnosis and she was pleased she was able to give back.
Follow Suffolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X.
