BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. (AP) — Despite cameras everywhere, not every superstar moment makes the broadcast of the Golden Globes.
Here’s a look at the happenings inside the Beverly Hilton International Ballroom that you didn’t see on TV.
COMMERCIAL SOCIALIZING: The ballroom isn’t as big as it appears on TV, and most of the A-listers are crammed into a small space right in front of the stage. That makes it easy for stars to schmooze during commercial breaks.
Frances McDormand introduced Steven Spielberg to “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri” writer-director Martin McDonagh. Barbra Streisand kibitzed with Oprah Winfrey cohorts Gayle King and Stedman Graham.
Nicole Kidman said, “Shirley, I love you!” as she brought husband Keith Urban over to say hi to Shirley MacLaine. Sharon Stone introduced her son to Debra Messing. Denzel Washington caught up with Mary J. Blige. Jason Bateman greeted Kevin Bacon and Kyra Sedgwick. Christian Slater congratulated Sam Rockwell.
“The Handmaid’s Tale” actress Samira Wiley stopped “Lady Bird” star Saoirse Ronan to say, “I don’t know you, but I love your work.” Wiley also said Ronan’s dress was one of her favorites of the night.
Helen Mirren took in the scene with her husband, director Taylor Hackford, who sat at a corner table with his arm around her shoulders.
BATHROOM BANTER: Stars are just like us — when it comes to waiting in line for the restroom. There’s no way around it, even at the Golden Globes. Meryl Streep stood behind “black-ish” star Tracee Ellis Ross.

        
    
Actress Emma Watson considered ducking into the kitchen to avoid the bathroom queue, but eventually resigned herself to the inevitable.
Geena Davis held onto her dress as she waited.
“I keep stepping on my fringe,” she said.
Once inside, Davis chatted with actress Michelle Williams.
Actress Pamela Adlon posed for a selfie with a fan in the ladies’ room.
“Thank you so much for watching,” Adlon said as she left.
Kerry Washington used the space to make a quick phone call. And actress Sarah Paulson used it to declare her love to “The Crown” star Claire Foy. After gushing to Foy directly, Paulson declared to anyone within earshot: “Ladies and gentlemen, Claire Foy is here and nothing else matters. We don’t have to pretend we don’t all feel the same way.”
HUNGER GAMES: Only very early arrivals to the Golden Globes get dinner. Plates are whisked away 30 minutes before the telecast begins, while most stars are still winding their way down the red carpet, leaving only magnums of Champagne on the tables.
An alcove adjacent to the ballroom is the only place with food during the three-hour show, and stars flocked to its offerings of finger sandwiches, fruit and crudites.
Actress Maggie Gyllenhaal nibbled a chocolate-covered strawberry as she assembled a plate of veggies. “Wonder Woman” star Gal Gadot dug into a package of Lindt chocolates.
Natalie Portman was jubilant after securing a full plate of snacks.
“I finally got food!” she said, sharing her plate with table-mate America Ferrera.
For full coverage of awards season, visit: 
https://apnews.com/tag/AwardsSeason
