Two Coast Guard shipmates who were sexually harassed by a Charleston-based officer did not influence his sentencing by testifying that his crimes affected their pregnancies, the nation’s highest military court ruled this week.
Former Petty Officer 2nd Class Omar Gomez 
was convicted
 during a 2013 court-martial in North Charleston of five violations of military law, including aggravated sexual contact and harassment of seamen under his command on the cutter Gallatin. He was sentenced to eight years in prison.
His conviction was part of a push to root out what some called 
a culture of sex
 on the now-decommissioned vessel. Other members of the crew also were accused of crimes.
Gomez’s attorneys sought to overturn his sentence by arguing at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces that the military judge should not have allowed testimony from two women who attributed their pregnancy complications to Gomez’s misconduct.
Six female shipmates accused Gomez, who supervised a deck crew, of fondling them, exposing his genitals or making sexual comments. He also raped a fellow Coast Guardsman’s civilian girlfriend as she slept in a West Ashley apartment.
Five of the accusers returned to the witness stand during a sentencing phase after a jury of six officers convicted Gomez. One woman attributed the miscarriage of one of her twins to stress caused by the ordeal, and another said her baby was born prematurely with a condition brought on by stress.

        
    
In the appeal, Gomez’s attorneys told the court in Washington the testimony prejudiced the jurors who convicted him and handed out his sentence. On top of the prison term, the jurors decided Gomez should be demoted and dishonorably discharged. The military justice system varies considerably from civilian courts, where a judge decides the punishment after a unanimous jury verdict.
While the five judges at the appeals court found the women’s testimony inadmissible, they saw no evidence it affected his sentencing, they said in 
an opinion published Monday
. At least one woman likely either reached the medical diagnosis on her own, gave expert testimony she wasn’t qualified to give or repeated comments that a doctor had made to her — any of which would have barred the testimony under rules that are common in most courts.
But the appeals judges didn’t find evidence that it “substantially influenced” the sentence. They unanimously agreed to deny Gomez a new sentence, noting that the jury’s penalty proved closer to the defense team’s recommendation of five years than the prosecutors’ suggestion of 20 to 30 years behind bars.
