Some of Somerset's most beautiful landmarks were part of celebrations and used for the 'glitz and glamour' of cinema this week.A gathering of people, candles and lanterns took to Glastonbury Tor to honour a Christian saint.Crews were also spotted at Cheddar Gorge for a major film production.And we said goodbye to a lovely 85-year-old lollipop lady who decided to put down her sign and retire after 32 years.
A moving moment: People gathered at Glastonbury Tor on Monday to honour Mary Magdalene's feast day.The day is celebrated in honour of the Christian saint who was said to have been the first to witness Christ's resurrection in the Bible.
Make some moves: More than 150 participants from Yeovil dance company Project Dance, have completed a 24 Hour Danceathon.The team did it to raise funds for the Octagon Theatre and the Young Dancer Bursary Fund.
Row over pay: RMT Union members were on the picket line in Taunton on Tuesday morning over pay and conditions at First South West Buses.
Lights, cameras, action: The road through Cheddar Gorge was closed this week for a major film.There were rumours it was for director Danny Boyle’s new zombie movie, 28 Years Later, but the production company and council remained tight-lipped.
Paris Olympics 2024: Becky Wilde will be heading to the summer Olympics with her rowing partner Mathilda Hodgkins Byrne.
So much talent: This is the moment 11-year-old Somerset pupil Elliott got to hear an orchestra perform his composition called Galactic Procession.He wrote the piece as part of an initiative called On the Record run by Actiontrack Performance Company.
What a legend: Cora Pinkawa has been helping children cross the road to Milborne Port primary school in Somerset for 32 years.The 85-year-old has retired after being a lollipop lady for more than three decades..
Fancy a game? The new padel court at Brean Country Club is the first of its kind in Somerset that is open to the public.
Follow BBC Somerset on Facebook and X. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
