The family of a baby boy from Illogan who lost an eye to cancer say he's their "little superstar".
Sol, who is 13 months old, has an extremely rare form of sarcoma cancer, and is due to undergo surgery next week to remove the last part of the tumour from his brain.
The little boy has been nicknamed "Super Sol" because of his cheerful nature.
His parents have thanked the community for their support during his treatment.
Sol's cancer journey began last summer after his parents Becky Flower and Damien Stephens noticed he had problems with his sight.
He's been diagnosed with a Primitive Myxoid Mesenchymal tumour, and doctors have told his parents he's one of the first in the world to have this type of cancer in his eye.
His left eye had to be removed and he has also undergone a gruelling series of tests, operations and chemotherapy.
Ms Flower, 34, told BBC Radio Cornwall: "He's had 28 GAs (General Anaesthetics), 41 nights in hospital, I think they've taken his blood over 130 times.
"It's pretty nuts when you think I'm 34 and I've only been put under twice."
Mrs Flower said their little boy is known as "Super Sol", adding: "People have been blown away with how he's kept going. If you saw him a day after chemo when he's come home, he's just running around, smiling and happy.
"He does slow down when he realises 'actually I am pretty tired, I need to nap', but when he is up and awake, he's just on the move, he's just non-stop, he's our little superstar at the minute."
The family hope an operation scheduled for next week will be key to his continued improvement.
Neurosurgeons in Bristol plan to remove the remaining five per cent of the tumour, but have to take extreme care as it's wrapped around an artery leading to the brain. 
Sol's father Damien Stephens, 43, said they were all prepared for a long wait, adding:  "It affects ears, eyes, nose, brain - there are going to be lot of surgeons in that room at one time. 
"They have said to us unless they can get one hundred per cent, they are not going to go in.  
"So it is all or nothing."
Local people have been rallying round to help Sol and his parents, both with emotional support and with the extra costs associated with his illness, estimated to be £1,000 a month.
One family friend is being sponsored to run 5km a day throughout September - she's already raised more than three times her £1,000 target.
Follow BBC Cornwall on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Follow BBC Devon on X (formerly Twitter), Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk.
