The families of four friends who died in a car crash have paid tribute to their loved ones. Andrei Tudorov, 18, Lyuben Gogov, 20, Narcis Titianu, 20, and Ioan Toma, 20, were found dead in the early hours of Sunday morning by police on the A436 in Ullenwood near Cheltenham. The black Renault Clio they were travelling in had left the road and crashed into a tree. Gloucestershire Police said Mr Gogov, Mr Titianu and Mr Toma all lived together in Gloucester, while Mr Tudorov was visiting them on holiday. 
Mr Tudorov's mother, Iolanda paid tribute to her son, who was visiting Gloucestershire from Romania, describing him as her "child full of dreams". "He was going to take the Baccalaureate and go to Câmpina and wanted to become a policeman," she said. "Andrei was a warm and loving soul, a good brother, an angel who took flight much too soon, leaving behind an ocean of sadness, both in his family and among his friends."
Mr Titianu, a Romanian national, "left an indelible mark on all who had the privilege of knowing him”, his family said. The youngest of three siblings, he moved to the UK nearly four years ago, "driven by a desire to build a future for himself, a testament to his courage and ambition". His family added that he "had a knack for connecting with people, earning their respect through his dedication and intellect", and said he "deeply cherished" his roots in Romania, particularly through his love for nature. "In his spare time, Narcis found joy in the simple pleasures of life," they said, saying he enjoyed playing computer games with family and friends."Rest well, Narcis," they added. "You will always be loved, and your spirit will forever be a guiding light for those who knew you.”
Fellow Romanian national Mr Toma was described by his family as a "beacon of light in their lives". “He was not just a brother; he was the epitome of joy and warmth," they said. "Ioan’s constant smile and infectious laughter could light up the darkest room, and his presence brought happiness to all who knew him.“Ioan was the best brother in the entire world. He possessed a unique blend of intelligence and compassion that made him a cherished friend and confidant."They added that he "had a heart of gold" and that he had had "a profound impact on the lives of those around him"."Though you are no longer with us, your spirit lives on in our hearts, and we will carry your love with us always," they said. 
Parents of Bulgarian national Mr Gogov, Krasimira and Borislav, said their son would "always remain in our thoughts". "Losing a son is one of the hardest losses to have to get through in life," they said."You’ll always remain in our thoughts. Thanks for all the memories and joy you’ve given us."May your everlasting smile always remain in our hearts. Rest in peace, son. You’ll be missed."Anyone who has any information about the crash, or has any dashcam footage, has been asked to contact police.
Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
