RENO, Nev. (AP) — A sweeping proposal to reform election procedures in Washoe County has been put on hold amid heavy criticism of some of the changes, including returning to mostly paper ballots and posting National Guard troops at all voting sites in the Reno-Sparks area.
The proposal was pulled from the Washoe County Commission’s agenda Tuesday on the advice of the district attorney’s office based on concerns that it hadn’t received a full legal review and its consideration could be in violation of open meetings laws, Commission Chairman Vaughn Hartung said.
Commissioner Jeanne Herman, a conservative who represents the most rural part of the county stretching to California and Oregon, said she intends to resubmit her proposal in an effort to “ensure accuracy, security and purity of elections.”
Her plan already has drawn strong opposition from a number of commissioners and others concerned that it would make it more difficult to vote. They’re especially worried a military presence at the polls could intimidate some voters.
In addition to posting the National Guard troops at voting sites, Herman’s proposal would designate paper ballots as the primary voting method, with one electronic kiosk for Americans with Disabilities Act-qualified voters at each site.
It also calls for all ballots to be counted by hand and mail ballots to be sent by certified receipt so that only the intended voter takes possession of it.

        
    
In a rare front-page editorial across the top of Tuesday’s newspaper, the 
Reno Gazette Journal
 urged the commission to reject the proposal.
The Culinary Workers Union Local 226 and Bartenders Union Local 165, which represent 60,000 workers in casinos and other businesses in Las Vegas and Reno, said they believe Nevada’s elections already are “safe and secure.
“The presence of National Guard personnel at voting locations could result in a greater fear surrounding elections, particularly for Black, Indigenous and people of color,” they said in a statement Tuesday.
“Limiting the use of mail ballots by requiring them to be sent by certified mail would disenfranchise voters, and forcing voters to jump through hoops to drop off mail ballots would not make our elections safer but would result in longer lines to vote,” they said.
More Nevadans cast their ballots by mail than any other way in the 2020 general election under temporary procedures adopted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Legislature made the changes permanent last year under a law that automatically sends mail ballots to every active registered Nevada voter.
Commission Vice Chairwoman Alexis Hill said she’s especially concerned about the National Guard language.
“It’s meant to intimidate voters to militarize voting locations,” she told the 
Gazette Journal 
 Friday. “The proposals in it are illegal. It contains things that Washoe County couldn’t change even if we wanted to.”
Herman said all 20 measures in her resolution came from public comment offered at a recent county commission meeting attended by more than 350 people.
She told the newspaper she didn’t believe Washoe County’s vote tally was wrong in the 2020 general election. She said she agreed earlier to remove the National Guard reference if the county determined it couldn’t be enforced.
But Herman said it should be considered “because during the election, people from other states came here and they weren’t very kind to a lot of people.”
The Gazette Journal’s editorial cited data compiled by a conservative think tank, the Heritage Fund, that found only one person has been convicted of voter fraud among the millions of ballots cast in Washoe County over the past 40 years. It said the measure could end up costing taxpayers “millions of dollars to chase down Facebook rumors of illusory election fraud.”
