The YWCA’s weekly duplicate will resume this Monday after a three-week hiatus since the last game. The game will return to its normal starting time of 12:15 p.m. after starting at 1:15 p.m. over the summer, and will continue on that schedule until late June next year. Players are advised to be in their seats ready to play by 12:10 p.m.
Also at the YW, the Friday morning Supervised Play class resumed as of yesterday. The class, which requires advance registration each week because of size limitations, gets under way at 9:30 a.m. A sign-up sheet for registering in advance is posted each week just inside the back entrance to the YW.
Today’s quiz: Here is another in the current series of quizzes on overcalls and takeout doubles. The following problem has two parts. First, a), decide what action (if any) you would take with the hand shown if your left-hand opponent opened with one spade, partner overcalled with two hearts, and your right-hand opponent passes. Then, b), decide what you would do if your partner overcalled with two diamonds rather than two hearts. In both cases, neither side is vulnerable. Your hand:
Answer:
a) Bid three hearts. The heart raise invites partner to go to game if he has more than a minimum for his two-level overcall. Two notrump is tempting, but when an eight-card major suit fit has been found, it is nearly always right to play in the major. A cue-bid of two spades, indicating a heart fit and interest in game, is also possible, but this 10-point hand with no distribution is not quite good enough for that.

        
    
b) Here you should bid two notrump. When a minor suit fit has been found and a game is in the offing, notrump moves to the forefront because it is easier in the great majority of cases to make nine tricks in notrump rather than 11 tricks in a minor. Two notrump is invitational, announcing that you have at least one spade stopper, but it does not guarantee stoppers in both of the unbid suits.
The week’s duplicate results:
Central Greenwich Bridge Club, 8/25: North-South, 1. Bernice Klein-Ginny Wolff, 2. Claire Brown-Howard Truss, 3. Anne Gilhuly-Jackie Walsh; East-West, 1. Joyce Beach-Pat Riggo, 2. Rosemary Cronin-Hilary McGuire, 3. Dave Babson-Dorothea Bellafiore.
