A man has been ordered by the High Court to demolish two shed-like buildings he constructed in a Special Area of Conservation.
He has to remove the buildings - created without planning permission - at Quarry Hill, Box by 5 May 2024.
The landowner, not been named by Wiltshire Council, owns woodland in an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty which is home to rare horseshoe bats.
He also has to pay council's costs of £9,880. 
The section of woodland he owns is inside an area known locally as Quarry Woods, which is also a Site of Special Scientific Interest and an internationally important site for greater horseshoe bats.
It is home to 10% of the UK's population of the species.
The High Court injunction secured by Wiltshire Council also told the landowner not to build anything else on the site - if he were to break this, it could result in a  fine, imprisonment or asset seizure.
It comes after he was originally found guilty of failure to comply with an enforcement notice, which had ordered him to permanently demolish the buildings and remove the materials in February 2023 at Salisbury Magistrates Court.
He then appealed against the decision in Salisbury Crown Court but lost in July 2023 and was ordered to pay the council's costs of £1,700.
The buildings were still left standing, so Wiltshire Council went to the High Court.
Councillor Richard Clewer, leader of the council, said: "This injunction shows just how seriously we take contraventions of planning law here in Wiltshire, and I'd like to pay tribute to the tenacity of our Planning Enforcement team in this case."
He continued: "While these buildings may be small, they were constructed without permission in deciduous woodlands with a very high degree of environmental protection. 
"Our message to anyone considering building without planning permission is clear: we will use all of the legal powers available to us and take enforcement action against breaches of planning regulations in Wiltshire."
Follow BBC Wiltshire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
