A watchdog has raised "serious concerns" over the performance of Nottinghamshire Police. In a report released on Thursday, the chief policing inspector said the force was inadequate in three out of eight areas of policing.His Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire & Rescue Services (HMICFRS) released its final review having already put the organisation into special measures in March.Chief Constable Kate Meynell said her force was taking the report "very seriously". 
Concerns were raised over the performance of Nottinghamshire Police after it was inspected by HMICFRS between the end of 2023 and January.The report said the force needed to improve how it managed, supervised and carried out investigations, and make sure victims get the support they need.However, the inspectorate found it was effective at using police powers and legislation to tackle anti-social behaviour and the force used stop and search powers legitimately.
Author, Roy Wilsher, His Majesty’s Inspector of Constabulary, said he had "concerns" over how the force was keeping people safe, reducing crime and providing victims with an effective service.“Nottinghamshire Police needs to allocate its resources more effectively to prevent and detect crime, and to protect its communities," he said. "However, its ability to meet demand is affected by acute environmental factors, like high levels of deprivation and funding gaps for local partner agencies."As a consequence of the report, Mr Wilsher said he had been in contact with Ms Meynell as the amount of improvement needed "shouldn’t be underestimated". "I am pleased to see that the force has accepted our findings and is now working on how it will make the changes needed for sustainable improvement," Mr Wilsher said.
Ms Meynell said the report had given Nottinghamshire Police the opportunity to work with the inspectorate on a number of improvements it had already been making. "We are now delivering these improvements quicker to better serve our communities and have received positive feedback in relation to the changes made to date," she said. "We know that we still have more to do, but the steps already taken have seen our positive outcome rate increase further, with our charge rate exceeding the national average, and victim updates increase.“By continuing to work with the inspectorate, the National Police Chiefs’ Council and the College of Policing I will implement any further changes which benefit our communities.”HMICFRS said its conclusions were not related to the force's handling of the Nottingham attacks case, which has been referred to the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC).Follow BBC Nottingham on Facebook, on X, or on Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2210.
