A nine-year-old girl injured when a motorcyclist fired a number of shots towards a restaurant in east London seven weeks ago remains "stable" but may not "speak or move properly again", her parents have said.The shooting occurred on Kingsland High Street, Dalston, at about 21:20 BST on 29 May. Three men, aged 26, 37 and 42, who were sitting outside the restaurant were also injured. They have all been sent home from hospital.The Metropolitan Police has released CCTV images of the motorcyclist they are trying to trace over the shooting.
The girl's parents say they are "devastated about what has happened"."She only went there for ice cream and now we do not know if we will ever get our daughter back to being the smart, funny girl that she was before and whether she will be able to ever speak or move properly again."
Det Ch Supt James Conway said detectives believed the shooting could be linked to "Turkish-originating organised criminal networks".Detectives had previously appealed to east London's Turkish and Kurdish communities for information on the shooting.“Our investigation team has been working tirelessly to piece together what happened and to identify the dangerous individuals responsible for this shocking and indiscriminate act of violence," Det Ch Insp Conway continued.
He said the motorcycle had been in the Peckham and Crystal Palace areas and urged anyone with information about it or the rider to contact police. Last month, the police identified the bike as a Ducati Monster motorbike that was dumped close to the shooting on Colvestone Crescent.
In 2021 the bike - described as having a white body, red chassis, red wheels and a registration plate of DP21 OXY - was stolen from a property in Wembley, north London, the Met said."The nine-year-old girl who was injured was simply out having dinner with her family. She remains in hospital in a critical but stable condition," Det Ch Insp Conway added."Whoever this person is, they are dangerous and must be removed from our streets."The girl's parents added: "We need our child back and we are all praying for her full recovery."
Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk
