Live updates:
 
Follow AP’s coverage of the 2024 Olympics in Paris as Americans Simone Biles, Sha’Carri Richardson and Katie Ledecky all win medals.
Want more Olympics?
 Sign up for our daily 
Postcards from Paris newsletter.
SAINT-DENIS, France (AP) — Two-time Olympic 100 champion 
Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce’s
 quest for another title ended abruptly Saturday when she pulled out before the 
100-meter semifinal
 at the 
Paris Games
.
Olympic officials said she suffered an undisclosed injury. The letters “DNS” — “Did Not Start” — flashed on the scoreboard only moments before she was supposed to race Sha’Carri Richardson and Julien Alfred in the evening’s second semifinal.
“We only got the information that she is injured, but (a team doctor) is addressing the matter, and we will speak further on the matter,” team manager Ludlow Watts told the Jamaica Observer.
Alfred ended up 
beating Richardson
 in both the semifinal and the final to take the gold medal.
Fraser-Pryce, who won gold medals in 2008 and 2012, 
has said this will be her fifth and final Olympics
. 
In a social media post
 early Sunday morning, she thanked her supporters but did not provide specifics about her injury.
“It is difficult for me to find the words to describe the depth of my disappointment,” she posted. “I know that my supporters share and shoulder this disappointment with me. I am truly Blessed to have had the steadfast support of my fans since my Olympic debut in 2008.
“With every step and win, you have all been there for me.”
Fraser-Pryce advanced easily through the first round the day before, finishing second in her first-round heat in 10.92 seconds.

        
    
Earlier in the day, Fraser-Pryce was one of several athletes blocked from entering the training track, the 
Jamaica team said on its social media site
. The team said she was eventually let in. 
Paris organizers said she merely came to the wrong gate, and had to go to a different one to get into the practice area.
Fraser-Pryce has a total of eight Olympic medals, including gold in the 4x100 at the Tokyo Games in 2021. She also has 
16 medals at world championships
, including five titles in the 100, the most recent of which came in 2022.
Catch up on the latest from Day 10 of the 2024 Paris Olympics:
Her departure left the 100 without all three Jamaicans who swept the podium in Tokyo. Reigning champion Elaine Thompson-Herah shut down her season earlier this year with an Achilles tendon injury, and bronze medalist Shericka Jackson announced this week that she was focusing on the 200.
AP Summer Olympics: 
https://apnews.com/hub/2024-paris-olympic-games
