EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) — Starting their backup goalie against his old club turned out to be a good move for the Las Vegas Golden Knights.
William Karlsson and Reilly Smith each had a goal and an assist, and Laurent Brossoit made 28 saves for his third career shutout, leading the Golden Knights to their third straight win, 4-0 over the Edmonton Oilers on Tuesday night.
“I definitely was juiced up to play this one. I don’t think I’ve won against Edmonton since moving on from them so it felt nice to win, and to get the shutout, it meant even more,” Brossoit said. “I feel like in the second half of the game the guys shut it down and frustrated them.”
Brett Howden and Alex Pietrangelo also scored for the Pacific Division-leading Golden Knights.
“I thought they were real good the first 10 minutes, I thought we kind of worked our way into the game,” Knights had coach Pete DeBoer said. “Our best player early was our goalie and I thought once we got our legs going and got up to speed, I liked a lot of things about the rest of the night.”
The Oilers have lost two of their last three.
“We made the bigger mistakes and they capitalized on those mistakes,” Oilers forward Ryan Nugent-Hopkins said. “We were pushing early and even in the second period and couldn’t find a way to beat Brossoit there. It is frustrating to come back from a break and start off like that, but at the same time we play tomorrow and there is no time to dwell on it.”
Midway through the first period, Shea Theodore found Howden with a long pass and he beat Oilers goalie Mike Smith, who was making his first start since missing the last eight games with a thumb injury. 

        
    
It was the 28th time in the last 34 games that the Oilers have allowed the first goal of the game.
The Golden Knights added to their lead with 3:05 left in the opening period as Karlsson converted a pass from Smith on a two-on-none short-handed breakaway.
Vegas made it 3-0 just three minutes into the second period as Pietrangelo scored his seventh of the season — his 500th career point.
It only took 14 seconds into the third period for the Golden Knights to add to their lead as Smith snuck in a rebound for his 13th.
NOTES: It was the third of four meetings this season between the Pacific Division rivals. The Oilers won both of the previous games in Las Vegas, by 5-3 and 3-2 scores. ... Massive trade addition Jack Eichel is now participating in full practices for Vegas and could make his debut for the team as early as next week. ... Out of the Oilers lineup were Kris Russell (undisclosed) and Mikko Koskinen (COVID). ... Missing for the Knights were Eichel (neck), Alec Martinez (facial laceration), Adam Brooks (undisclosed) and Zach Whitecloud (undisclosed).
Golden Knights: At Calgary Flames on Wednesday.
Oilers: Host Chicago Blackhawks on Wednesday.
More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
