A nine-year-old cancer survivor whose family feared he might not celebrate another Christmas will switch on the lights in a Nottinghamshire village.
Aydn was picked to turn on Calverton's lights in tribute to his "strength and bravery", his family said.
The youngster spent last Christmas in hospital receiving treatment for bone cancer while battling sepsis. 
His father Liam said seeing Aydn switching on the lights on Friday would be emotional for the family.
The Sir John Sherbrooke Junior School pupil was picked to turn on the lights after his school won a competition. 
Liam told BBC Radio Nottingham: "We didn't think this was going to happen; we didn't think we were going to get to see another Christmas, never mind getting to celebrate it with him walking as well.
"The overwhelming feeling of happiness is indescribable really.
"We went through a lot last year. He had one of the worst things in the world and he still gets up every day smiling. 
"The strength that he's shown to come out the other side of it now - you couldn't put words to it."
Head teacher Sally Maddison, announced Aydn would be turning on the Christmas lights during an assembly with his classmates. 
The lights are set to be turned on in the village at 17:00 GMT on Friday with entertainment starting from 15:00. 
Mum Leanne added: "[Last year] he started treatment in September and then in the December we came out [of hospital on] Christmas Eve, slept all day Christmas Day and then we went back in Boxing Day because he had sepsis. 
"So we ended up doing about three weeks in hospital and didn't get a Christmas at all last year.
"His strength is out of this world. All you want to do is protect your children and then something like that happens and your world just crashes.
"You see them go through things that no mum should see your child go through. It's been awful."
The honour comes after hundreds of people were left disappointed last year when Calverton's Christmas lights switch-on failed due to the lights not being fully installed.
Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook, on X, or on Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk.
