A man who was sexually abused by his teacher said he is disappointed with “failings” in the case of disgraced head teacher Neil Foden.The former head teacher at Ysgol Friars in Bangor, Gwynedd, and strategic head of Ysgol Dyffryn Nantlle in Penygroes was found guilty on Wednesday of sexually abusing four children.Gareth Potter was a victim of former drama teacher, Welsh language author and playwright John Owen.In 2004, a report by Wales’ first children’s commissioner found Owen had sexually abused pupils at Ysgol Gyfun Rhydfelen, near Pontypridd, Rhondda Cynon Taf, over a number of years.
He had been charged with five counts of indecent assault, but was found dead in a caravan in Trecco Bay, Porthcawl, Bridgend county, the day before his trial was due to start in 2001.DJ and actor Mr Potter is the only one of Owen’s victims to have waived his right to anonymity and spoken publicly about the abuse he endured.He said Foden, like Owen before him, should have been stopped sooner.He believed there were similarities between the actions of the paedophiles.“There have been failings," he said. "There were things that had happened in the past with this man, as there had been with our teacher, before we went to the police.“It is disappointing on many levels. It would have been better had some councils, some schools acted more sharply on things like this."
Speaking to Newyddion S4C, Mr Potter said people such as Owen and Foden “spoil the lives of young people" and hoped "he gets what he deserves… which is whatever the law decides".Foden was convicted of 19 charges of sexual abuse against young girls and was told by a judge that he faced a long prison sentence.As well as being a head teacher and strategic head teacher of two schools in, he was an executive member of the teaching union NEU.The NEU said: "This person used his authority and power to abuse girls. There were despicable and vile acts, with lasting effects on his victims. “No-one should be above suspicion and when accusations or concerns are raised about an individual, from whatever quarter or position of power, they need to be fully investigated.”
Helen Mary Jones - an Assembly Member when the Clywch report by Peter Clarke was published - said she was angry Foden was able to abuse children, two decades on from Owen’s death.“It was obvious that in this school there was a poisonous atmosphere, that people couldn’t speak out," she said. “There were red flags everywhere and yet again, we find ourselves in a position where, in our education system, where our children should feel safe, comfortable and happy, a powerful man has misused his authority and no-one has stepped up to stop him – except those who didn’t have the power to do so.“Was the [Clywch] report taken seriously? Has the Welsh government acted fully on the recommendations? Those are the questions that need to be asked."The Welsh government have been asked to responds to Ms Jones’ comments.
