Some Labour councils have voiced their concerns about Sadiq Khan's ULEZ expansion plans.
London's mayor insisted earlier this week there were no Labour authorities calling for a delay to the scheme.
He said opposition to it was a political strategy by Tory councils "in the pocket of vested interests".
But it has emerged some Labour councils also have misgivings about the seven-month timescale for implementing the zone across the capital.
One is Barking and Dagenham, where there is worry about the impact of the anti-pollution measures on people in one of the most deprived parts of the capital.
Barking and Dagenham Council leader Darren Rodwell took to social media earlier on Thursday to express concern, saying the current £110 scrappage scheme would not provide enough compensation for people forced to change their vehicles, and more time was needed.
Transport for London's scrappage scheme provides grants for drivers with older, non-ULEZ complaint vehicles to trade them in for newer, greener ones. Responding to Mr Rodwell's comments, a spokesperson for Mr Khan said the mayor would not delay implementing the ULEZ expansion.
On Twitter Mr Rodwell wrote: "We have made the case to TfL that we need a much more comprehensive and generous scrappage and support scheme for outer London, and a greater lead-in time for people to take advantage of any schemes given the cost-of-living pressures facing people at the moment."
Mr Rodwell makes clear - unlike some Conservative councils - that he does not think there is a legal basis on which to challenge the mayor's plans, but he has clear reservations about the timescale and help available.
He added: "We must take air quality seriously, but any initiatives must take full of account of how people will be affected financially and must do as much as possible to mitigate that."
The BBC has contacted other London Labour councils about the matter, with some privately expressing similar concerns.
Redbridge Council said it shared concerns about the scrappage scheme and low-income households.
A council spokesperson said: "As a council, we remain committed to improving air quality to ensure Redbridge is a healthy environment for local people, now and for generations to come. 
"It is vital that efforts to improve air quality take into account potential financial implications for all communities. We have shared concerns with TfL around eligibility for the ULEZ scrappage scheme and been clear that small businesses operating within our borough, businesses in Essex that trade in London and low-income households must be appropriately supported."
On Tuesday, Mr Khan told the BBC that London's Conservative councils were siding with the pro-roads lobby rather than the families bereaved by the loss of someone due to health problems related to poor air quality.
Tory-controlled Bexley, Bromley, Croydon, Harrow and Hillingdon are all calling for the scheme to be scrapped and are said to be considering legal action to try to block it.
Three Liberal Democrat councils - Sutton, Kingston and Richmond - are calling for a delay and measures to mitigate the effects, such as by providing more public transport, more money to compensate motorists disposing of vehicles and more investment in local "active" transport alternatives.
Speaking to the BBC on Tuesday, Mr Khan denied some Labour councils also wanted a delay and other mitigating measures.
Asked specifically if Barking and Dagenham took this position, the mayor said: "No. We've been talking to all councils in outer London who are not tribally Conservative, and councils in outer London are working with us to make sure we fix the air in outer London."
When contacted by the BBC about Mr Khan's comments, the leader of Barnet Council Barry Rawlings said there should have been a "longer lead-in and better scrappage scheme" but expansion should not be delayed.
"Now it's been announced, we go for it," he said. "It's a tough call. But if it reduces the number of children affected by poor air quality, you have to go with the health concerns."
Enfield Council said it "broadly supports" the ULEZ extension.
A spokesperson said: "The council has authorised TfL to work on the borough's road network to install the necessary cameras and signs in the near future.  
"Enfield Council has declared a climate emergency and has developed an action plan setting out how it will become a carbon-neutral organisation by 2030, and a carbon-neutral borough by 2040. 
"Reducing emissions from road transport plays a critical role meeting these objectives."
In a statement about the remarks made by Barking and Dagenham's council leader, a spokesperson for Mr Khan said: "The mayor recognises the cost-of-living pressures Londoners face, which is why he is working with councils such as Barking and Dagenham and has created an unprecedented £110m scrappage scheme to allow low-income Londoners to replace polluting vehicles. Eighty-five per cent of all vehicles are already exempt from the charge. 
"Low-income Londoners are least likely to own a car, yet are most affected by toxic air, which is why the mayor sees expanding the ULEZ as an issue of social justice - and one he won't delay implementing."
Follow BBC London on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hellobbclondon@bbc.co.uk
