WILKES-BARRE — The gunman who opened fire on police and civilians outside the Walmart at the Wilkes-Barre Twp. Marketplace was sentenced Thursday to serve at least 179 years in prison. Following trial in October, a jury convicted Scott Sargent, 33, of Shenandoah, on multiple counts of attempted murder, assaulting police officers and related charges. Luzerne County Judge David W. Lupas imposed the sentence Thursday, ordering Sargent to serve 179 to 258 years in state prison. During the sentencing hearing, Assistant District Attorney Jarrett Ferentino revealed that since his conviction, Sargent has gotten a tattoo of a graveyard with a skeleton watching over, featuring five tombstones with the names of the officers he was convicted of trying to kill. “In my 15 years as a prosecutor, handling thousands of cases, I have never seen something so disrespectful,” Ferentino said, noting that Sargent failed to accomplish his goal. “I’m glad he got it because I want him to be reminded everyday of his failure. ... I want him to be reminded every single day that those individuals are the reason why he’s sitting in jail.” When it came his turn to speak, Sargent chose not to address the court. Prosecutors say that after firing toward employees in the Walmart service garage on Oct. 17, 2015, Sargent got into a firefight with police, with one shot piercing a police SUV’s windshield and narrowly missing a Wilkes-Barre Twp. officer’s head. Wilkes-Barre city police officer Alan Gribble ended the battle with a shotgun blast to Sargent’s abdomen. Prosecutors alleged Sargent chose the location — a crowded shopping center on a Saturday afternoon — in an effort to inflict maximum terror as he chose to wage war against police. But his defense countered that the shooting was the result of a “perfect storm” of drug abuse and mental illness that made him paranoid and delusional. During trial, Sargent testified that he didn’t intend to kill anyone that day, and didn’t even realize he was fighting the police. He maintained that he thought he was being followed and opened fire in an attempt to scare off his pursuers. However, while jurors heard that Sargent had been drinking at Mohegan Sun Pocono in Plains Twp. prior to the shooting, they did not hear that Sargent had been heavily using methamphetamine and other drugs. After about two hours of deliberations, jurors convicted Sargent on five counts of attempted murder of a law officer, as well as six counts of assaulting a law officer, one count of aggravated assault and nine counts of reckless endangerment. Lupas then found Sargent guilty of a summary harassment charge for spitting on a medic who treated him after he was shot. Sargent still faces a separate trial on a count of possessing a firearm as a felon, which was severed in an effort to prevent jurors from learning about his criminal past. Contact the writer: 
[email protected]
 570-821-2058
