A council hit by a domestic violence scandal earlier this year has joined a nationwide initiative which aims to end domestic abuse.West Northamptonshire Council said it was now supporting the UK Says No More campaign (UKSNM).Its leader, Jonathan Nunn, stepped down in April after five women made allegations of abuse against him, which he strenuously denied. His replacement, Adam Brown, said: "We know people currently feel let down by us and we need to rebuild that trust."
The UKSNM campaign brings together organisations, businesses and communities across the country to take a stand against domestic violence and make positive changes.The council said signing up to the campaign meant it could join a national network of professionals and ambassadors working to end domestic violence.It could also promote "key community initiatives" locally, such as the Safe Spaces and Online Safe Spaces schemes and Ask for ANI.
UKSNM has set up a network of safe spaces which includes Superdrug, Boots and Santander branches in Northamptonshire where victims of domestic violence can ask for private rooms.The Ask for ANI scheme enables victims to ask for immediately emergency assistance at job centres and pharmacies.
The council's Conservative leader, Adam Brown, said: "We are totally committed to working with all our partners towards ending domestic abuse and violence of any kind, and ensuring victims are supported with the compassion they deserve, but we know people currently feel let down by us and we need to rebuild that trust."The UK Says No More campaign closely aligns with our priorities for working with partners to eradicate domestic abuse and sexual violence. "It will provide us with invaluable professional support and resources to help us develop a future action plan with partners towards tackling these issues.”
Jonathan Harris, deputy leader of the Liberal Democrats in West Northamptonshire, said: "The decision to sign up to this national campaign is an encouraging start, but there is still so much more to do and a long way to go to restore people’s faith. "We must be much bolder in our approach, with tangible actions and outcomes that really make difference to people’s lives. “We cannot let the work to stamp out domestic abuse and sexual violence slip in any way and so opposition members will continue to hold the council’s administration to account to ensure this does not happen."
Follow Northamptonshire news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X.
