Labour have taken back control of Southampton City Council after they lost it to the Conservatives last year. 
The Tories lost four seats, three to Labour and one to the Liberal Democrats, who won a seat in the city for the first time after 11 years.  
The four seats that Labour gained mean the party is now in control of the council, with a total of 26 seats. 
Elsewhere the Liberal Democrats retook control of Gosport after more than a decade.
Councillor Satvir Kaur, the new Labour leader on Southampton City Council, said the cost of living crisis and a rise in crime across the city were the key factors behind the results.
She said city residents were struggling with rising costs and the stories she heard on the doorstep were "heart-breaking".
"They want the government to do more and feel as that they can, but they are choosing not to. The trust in Boris Johnson has completely dissipated," she said.
Ms Kaur also said residents were concerned about crime, especially anti-social behaviour and drug use. 
"Hampshire lost 700 police officers in recent years and we haven't had that back and crime is really high and people do not feel safe and feel it has got worse under this Conservative government and PCC," she added. 
Tories' losses mean that councillors Steven Galton, who was cabinet member for environment, and Rob Harwood, who was cabinet member for customer service and transformation, have both lost their seats. 
Conservative leader Daniel Fitzhenry said his team did the best it could to help Southampton residents. 
He also said he believed Prime Minister Boris Johnson was still the "right man" to lead the Conservatives. 
But in Gosport, where the Liberal Democrats secured a majority with 16 seats, Conservative leader Graham Burgess said he felt "hard-done-by because it's not the fault of the local candidates".
He added: "What's happened in Westminster - not just partygate but also the rising living costs - has played a major party in the outcome.
"It's not just the prime minister but the whole government that must look at what needs to change."
New council leader Peter Chegwyn said: "I'm over the moon, absolutely delighted and very grateful to the people of Gosport for putting their trust in us - we won't let them down."
The Liberal Democrats retained control of Eastleigh Borough Council while the Conservatives held Fareham Borough Council, Rushmoor Borough Council and Havant Borough Council. 
Meanwhile, there have been no changes in Hart and Portsmouth, where no parties hold a majority on the councils. 
However, in Portsmouth the Liberal Democrats - which remain in control of the authority - gained two seats, holding now 17 of the 42 seats on the council. The Conservatives lost four seats and now hold a total of 13 while Labour gained two seats holding a total of nine. Three of the 42 seats are instead held by Portsmouth Independent Party. 
The Lib Dems retained control of Winchester City Council, gaining one seat that was vacant after the previous incumbent died.
The Conservatives held on to Basingstoke & Deane Borough Council.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk.
