After years of legal wrangling and bizarre courtroom appearances, a former Mount Pleasant Ebola researcher offered a first hint of remorse Monday before he was sentenced to nearly six years in prison for misusing millions of federal grant dollars.
Dr. Jian-Yun Dong, 60, the founder of GenPhar Inc. and Vaxima Inc., will spend 70 months in a federal prison after 2015 convictions on dozens of charges related to fraud, theft of government property and lying to investigators.
Authorities had alleged that Dong used more than $3.2 million in grants meant for vaccine research to help build a 50,000-square-foot facility behind The Market at Oakland shopping center and to visit a mistress in his native China.
He has stood by his innocence, reiterating that his spending was meant to further his development of vaccines for the deadly Ebola and Marburg viruses. Only on the verge of sentencing Monday did he acknowledge what he dubbed as possible unintentional missteps.
“I was so driven emotionally to the extreme ... with little consideration to others,” he said. “I did something that hurt many. ... I did not have (that) intention. But if I did wrong, I did wrong. My intention was to serve ... our national security.”
He cried at one point in the proceeding as he spoke of his new wife, whom he married after his convictions. The woman also stood before the judge, speaking in broken English, then dropped to her knees and cried out, pleading with the judge to show Dong some leniency.

        
    
Another judge had convicted Dong in a bench trial two years ago after a jury in a separate trial couldn’t reach unanimous verdicts. But since then, he has butted heads with his court-appointed attorneys and ultimately chose to defend himself, filing a flurry of motions and prompting delays in the case.
His latest handwritten pleading last week called on U.S. District Judge Bruce Howe Hendricks to reduce any prison sentence to the time he’s already served behind bars.
To Assistant U.S. Attorney Nathan Williams, Dong’s motion and argument on Monday indicated a “refusal to accept the seriousness of the offense.”
Dong’s 22 convictions for wire fraud could have each carried up to 20 years in prison. But sentencing guidelines, which considered in his lack of criminal past and various other factors, called for between 70 and 87 months.
Hendricks said opted for the low end of that range only after hearing from Dong and his loved ones on Monday, she said.
“You have constantly attempted to obstruct the administration of justice in this case and showed no contrition ... until today,” she said. “I hope that you will use your time in prison and your ... intellectual ability to good purpose.”
Dong also will served 18 months on related convictions for making illegal campaign contributions to Sen. Lindsey Graham, which authorities portrayed as Dong’s bid to help steer more government funding his way. Graham was not aware that Dong had been funneling money to Graham’s campaign fund through other donors after Dong and his wife hit their limits, officials said.
Monday’s sentencing marks one of the closing chapters in Dong’s fall from grace.
He had been raised in China and persecuted by Communists, a wrinkle he and his attorney cited Monday as an explanation for some of his behavior.
His research in medicine landed him to professor jobs in Alabama, California and ultimately the Medical University of South Carolina before he started the companies that got him in hot water with federal authorities.
Working at first from a modest Long Point Road office, Dong announced in 2009 that GenPhar would move to a new $30 million facility on South Morgan’s Point Road that would house vaccine research efforts. He was indicted on the federal charges two years later, after town officials had already halted the building’s construction.
Federal prosecutors said he used about $6 million in grant money on the building and still more on lobbyists to seek more funding.
Dong repeated Monday that he had never set out for personal gain. Saying he did not mean to offend anyone, he apologized to a former attorney and to the court, which he had derided in past proceedings.
He spoke for himself during the hearing, while local attorney Miller Shealy stood by for advice when he needed it. Shealy took an opportunity to offer a final word before the judge handed down a punishment.
There are “two John Dongs,” Shealy said, a reference to Dong’s American nickname. The one outside the courthouse matters to many, he said. The one in the courtroom “can be very irritating,” the lawyer said.
“He has a very different way of seeing the world,” Shealy said. “What’s difficult to imagine is how someone can be so smart ... and do incredibly stupid things.”
One thing is certain, though, Shealy said: “Mr. Dong is guilty.”
