Millions of people are expected to tune into the coronation of King Charles III on 6 May. While some might revel in the crowds, parties, pomp and ceremony, others will do everything they can to avoid the occasion.
BBC News spoke to five people who will not be watching. 
Activist Chantelle Lunt has no plans to tune in. The 35-year-old chairs the Merseyside Alliance for Racial Equality and says the monarchy doesn't have a place in modern society.
"This is a moment in time where we should be allowed to reflect on democracy in the UK and be allowed to vote about whether we want to continue having a monarchy."
She sees King Charles III's position as head of the Commonwealth as a relic of imperialism. 
"I have a lot of feelings about the legacy of monarchy and the history of the empire that was built on the backs of black and brown people. And I know along the way there's been some apologies made but in my opinion, not enough."
Chantelle will be avoiding all Coronation events and coverage in her home city at the weekend, as they will remind her "of something that has been imposed upon my ancestors." 
"Luckily for me we have Eurovision happening in Liverpool, so I will be celebrating that", she says. 
Oli in Stroud will not be following the events either.
"I think it's a huge waste of public money," says the 51-year-old midwife.
For Oli, a hereditary head of state is elitist and undemocratic.  
"You've got this tiny little band of elite at the top of our society that are thriving and then everybody else is scrabbling around trying to make ends meet and put food on the table," she says. 
As an NHS worker, she says taxpayers' money could be better spent.
"The Royal Family have their own personal wealth and yet we, the taxpayers, are having to fund this parade in the middle of a financial crisis," she says.
Instead of watching, she will be on shift at hospital helping to deliver babies.
Tarek Ahmed says he does not "care enough to watch for hours".
"I'd rather have a lie-in and eat some doughnuts", explains the 21-year-old marketing executive from Kent.
Tarek says he has not decided whether or not he supports the Royal Family.
"If they make the country money, happy days. That means more money for things like the NHS and education. But if that's not the case then I don't want them. I don't know the answer," he says.
A YouGov poll commissioned by the BBC's Panorama programme suggests broad support for keeping the monarchy, with 58% preferring it to an elected head of state - which was supported by 26%.
Tarek plans to spend Saturday morning watching the new Avatar film with his family instead. But he might catch a quick round-up of the Coronation afterwards.
"I'll probably look at highlights with the moment the crown goes on his head - that's a bit of history."
Despite his views on the Coronation, Tarek is looking forward to the bank holiday. 
"We get an extra day off and the entire country deserves that", he says.
Joana Firmino says she does not like King Charles and does not want to see him being crowned.
"I don't think he's going to be a good role model," says the 21-year-old waitress from Kent.
Joana was a fan of Queen Elizabeth II and was "extremely upset" when she passed away. 
But she worries King Charles may "not make good decisions" because of his troubled relationship with his first wife, Diana, Princess of Wales. She says his son Prince William would be "a way better king".
"If it was William being crowned, I would definitely watch. But I don't want to spend hours watching someone I don't really like getting crowned as King when I believe he doesn't deserve to be," she says.
Instead, Joana will be jetting off on holiday to the Philippines.
"I'm not going to be wasting my time. I'll be enjoying the sunny weather and tropical beaches," she adds.
Luke Dudley is working as a spotlight operator at the Eurovision Song Contest and says "back-to-back" rehearsals means he cannot watch the ceremony.
"It's a very tightly packed schedule which we've been religiously sticking to," he explains.
The 27-year-old from Manchester works in the lighting department, providing the key light for artists and presenters on the stage.
Luke is disappointed to be missing "a momentous period in our history".
"Friends and family have parties planned, so it's a massive shame. I love the pomp, ceremony and spectacle of it all," he says.
Despite Luke not being able to participate in the coronation parties, he says he "couldn't pass on an opportunity like Eurovision".
"I couldn't be more excited. There's nothing like it." 
