Barbara Emmons hears every sound in her Bevil Oaks neighborhood.
Her ears always perk up when cars drive along Riverbend Drive, she said. Since Tropical Storm Harvey, she’s been even more alert.
“Everyone back here is worried,” said Emmons, 62.
Since the August storm, the retired U.S. Postal Service employee said she has had to chase away potential looters, phony contractors and suspicious cars from her property and her neighbors’ empty houses. She said she’s not alone in feeling anxious and outraged by those looking to steal from the suffering.
“We’ve already lost everything,” Emmons said. She and her husband have installed a makeshift kitchen on the top floor of their home. It’s near the second-story window the pair climbed through when they were evacuated by boat.
The first floor is gutted down to its studs.
Last week, Emmons watched from her front door as a pickup crept into her neighbor’s driveway with no headlights on. She called the Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office.
“I don’t know how many people we’ve chased off our property,” Emmons said. There have been contractors on their lawn rifling through their belongings and strange men who tried to steal their bottled water, she said.
After dark is “when the creeps come out,” according to Emmons.
That’s why she’s usually packing, carrying her .357 Magnum revolver.
“I will walk outside with a gun in my hand,” Emmons said.

        
    
Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office spokesman Marcus McLellan said most post-Harvey thefts have been things like lawn mowers or trailers that were not properly locked up and secured.
“Which is pretty normal for residential burglaries anytime of year,” McLellan said.
But for residents who have lost most of their worldly possessions, every theft is just another blow, Angela Brandon said.
Brandon, 23, said thieves stole all four tires off her flooded Nissan Marano and a DVD player tucked in a backseat pocket for her son.
“They couldn’t haul it out without the tires,” Brandon said when she tried to trade the car in for a replacement. “I couldn’t get any kind of FEMA or SBA (Small Business Administration) assistance for that so I got nothing back.”
Brandon recently moved out of a rented trailer near Rose City, but not before someone stole the air conditioning unit.
“When there’s nobody living on the property or in the trailers down there, I’m not surprised,” Brandon said. “I expected it after the storm.”
She said she heard stories of people stealing freshly washed clothes right off the line.
Rose City Mayor Bonnie Stephenson said she’s been made aware of several thefts in recent weeks. She’s asked that their only full-time officer, Marshal Jeff Sasar, take extra caution at night.
Sasar was expecting an influx of people coming to steal lumber, plywood or gypsum wallboard supplies. Luckily, he said it’s been pretty quiet around town.
“It’s like a ghost town,” he said.
There have been a handful of thefts and incidents reported to him or the Orange County Sheriff’s Office, but he’s mostly just sent away loitering cars or suspicious people digging through trash.
“After dark, you have no business being back there,” Sasar said. “There’s no point for you to be there at midnight, so we send them along.”
Without an officer or a desk to work from, Sasar has been working out of his police truck. The Los Angeles Police Department donated extra uniforms and computers, he said.
Although everyone is worn out and tired, he can still see the resiliency within the “tight-knit bunch” who call Rose City home.
“There’s people out there decorating their FEMA trailers with Christmas lights,” Sasar said.
The Christmas decorations help bring added cheer to a neighborhood that is often in the dark. Stephenson said streetlights that have been out for months since Harvey make many of the small town’s residents uneasy.
Entergy Texas spokesperson Kacee Kirschvink said a crew replaced seven streetlights in Rose City, mostly north of Interstate 10, last week.
There are still streetlights out in parts of Pine Forest and Orange, according to Kirschvink.
Good lighting is key to deterring potential robbers, said Vidor Police Chief Rod Carroll.
“If you’re not living in your home but you have electricity, work on getting some timers or exterior lighting,” Carroll said.
The best piece of advice for creating peace of mind is asking for help from your neighbors, Carroll said.
“Work with your neighbors and ask them to keep an eye on things for you when you’re not there,” Carroll said. “I have a neighbor across the street that calls whenever there’s a car parked in our driveway, even if it was me and my son.”
After so many cars were flooded and replaced, officials say it’s more difficult to recognize familiar faces and vehicles driving up and down streets.
“We lost all three of our cars and everyone got new ones,” Emmons said. “I watch every car. You have to. Even before Harvey I did, but now more than ever, I have to stay vigilant.”
Carroll encouraged joining Neighborhood Watch groups and staying in contact with local law enforcement.
“I would rather get 50 of those calls about suspicious people and find out that only one is a burglar,” Carroll said. “Because that means people are being alert.”
Life is slowly returning to normal for Emmons. She gets to see her 17-month-old granddaughter Addalynn every day and is planning her family’s Christmas celebration. Luckily, her decorations were stacked high in the attic and were spared by Harvey.
“This year is all about her,” Emmons said of the baby. “We’ve got a small tree that we will plant in the yard after Christmas to remember this year. But it’s not like anyone will forget 2017.”
[email protected]
/morgGstalt
