A coalition of states from Virginia to Maine — including Connecticut — are promising to promote electric vehicles and develop the public charging stations needed to keep them on the road.
“Connecticut is pleased to join with our sister states in a regional electric vehicle infrastructure plan,” said Robert Klee, commissioner of the state Department of Energy and Environmental Protection.
“As our states share similar air quality and energy concerns, we appreciate the value of working cooperatively toward an important goal of preparing for the increasing numbers of electric vehicles we will soon see on our roads,” Klee said.
The 12 states and Washington, D.C., are sharing $108 million from a federal settlement with Volkswagen to resolve allegations the carmaker violated the Clean Air Act by selling 590,000 vehicles equipped with “defeat devices” that cheat on emissions tests.
Connecticut’s share of the money is about $8.4 million.
The coalition recently released a “Northeast Corridor Regional Strategy for Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure” that establishes goals and priorities for promoting electric vehicles and installing charging stations so EVs can be repowered as needed.
“There is still concern about being stranded without a charging station,” said Paul Farrell, DEEP assistant director for air planning. “We have to fill the gap. If you are going to Boston for the day, there is a concern about range.”

        
    
Elaine O’Grady, senior policy adviser for the Northeast States for Coordinated Air Use Management, which helped create the regional EV strategy, said investing in charging stations is the next step.
“The strategy will help accelerate awareness of the growing number of charging stations and ensure the deployment of a robust charging network,” O’Grady said.
New road map
The popularity of EVs is growing quickly; federal data shows there were less than 25,000 electric or hybrid cars on the road in 2011, compared to almost 150,000 in 2016.
An analysis of Connecticut car registration data by DEEP shows there were 5,576 EVs in the state as of Sept. 1, 2017. That’s compared to nearly 3 million gas powered cars also using the state’s roadways.
The Westport Electric Car Club recently reported that 6,264 EVs were registered in Connecticut this year compared to 4,636 last year, a 35 percent increase.
The car club noted the 511 registered EVs in Greenwich is the most in the state.
Farrell said there are 313 publicly available charging stations in Connecticut, offering 678 outlets. Customers pay a fee per charge.
The state does not track how often those charging stations are used, although Farrell said that type of data collection is part of the new strategy.
Farrell said an EV “road map” will be released by DEEP this fall, noting the most pressing needs are to draw awareness to EVs and build more charging stations.
“There could be hydrogen fuel stations and public charging stations, and there is some money for workplace and apartment complex stations,” Farrell said.
The strategy is expected to include converting work fleets to electric, as well as buses and other forms of public transportation.
The regional report noted “A joint vision for building an expansive charging network throughout the region is needed to inform public and private funding decisions and ensure investments are coordinated and aligned with regional goals.”
Cleaner air
Electric vehicles — whether powered by a battery, a mix of gas and battery or hydrogen fuel — produce no emissions and offer a path to help states to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Although gas powered vehicles are far more environmentally friendly than 20 or so years ago, they still represent a significant source of airborne pollution.
Connecticut and most of the northeastern states have committed to reducing Greenhouse Gas emissions to 80 percent below 2001 levels by 2050. Connecticut’s General Assembly a few weeks ago set a new benchmark of 45 percent below 2001 levels by 2030.
[email protected]
