A former sub-postmistress said she did not speak to her daughter for 18 months after being threatened by Post Office investigators.
Tracey Merritt, from Somerset, was prosecuted for theft but the charges against her were dropped.
She ran two offices in Dorset and was dismissed for "inappropriate use of funds" in 2009.
Post Office said: "We are doing all we can to put right the wrongs of the past." 
More than 900 Post Office workers were prosecuted after faulty computer software made it look like money was missing from their branches.
The issue was recently thrust into the spotlight by the ITV drama Mr Bates v The Post Office.
Bosses of the Post Office and technology firm Fujitsu have been questioned by MPs over what has been described as the biggest miscarriage of justice in UK history.
Ms Merritt, from Wincanton, worked alongside her daughter, Lisa Porter, who was also employed by the Post Office at Yetminster and Chetnole.
Ms Merritt and 555 claimants successfully sued the Post Office in 2019 but received very little as the majority was given over to legal fees. 
She cannot claim damages because the charges against her were dropped.
"When the Horizon system was installed, the trainer came and set up the system," Ms Merritt said.
"As soon as she did, the computer said I was £1,000 short.
"When the auditors came in, they said I owed £13,500. They wrote out a confession for me to read down the phone to my manager."
When Post Office investigators started questioning her, Ms Merritt claims she was threatened.
She said: "I was told I needed to confess otherwise I would go to prison...
"I was then told I couldn't talk to my daughter, and I believed them."
For 18 months, she had no communication with her daughter, including when she was pregnant.
"It was horrendous," Ms Porter said.
"I had no family, no support, I lost my job, I had nothing.
"It destroyed our relationship. I wont get that time back, my mum should have been there for me when I was having scans. 
"I am angry at the Post Office. No amount of compensation will make it right."
Since the ITV drama and media coverage, the pair said they had started to rebuild their relationship.
"Since the drama came out, we understand the pain we've caused one another," Ms Merritt said.
"We're gradually healing but I don't think we'll ever be the same people."
Follow BBC West on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: bristol@bbc.co.uk 
