A vet has said he is seeing more dog owners asking for sedatives for their pets in the run up to Bonfire Night.
Dr Alex Davies said in the build up to the celebrations this year around a third of all prescriptions given out were for the drugs.
RSPCA Cymru has asked people attending events to be considerate, as some animals could end up "spooked". 
In Wales, 14 councils have signed up to RSPCA-backed policies to keep animals safe. 
Dr Davies, 29, said: "I've noticed that owners are becoming more and more interested in making sure their animals aren't stressed during the firework period. 
"Fireworks are a huge stimuli for our pets, and can negatively affect their welfare and cause huge amounts of stress."
He said year-on-year he was seeing an increase in the amount of people asking for sedatives. 
"As we're doing repeat prescriptions, this year in particular, I've noticed around a third of them are people requesting medications to get their pet through the Bonfire Night period," he said.
"I think it's because owners are more aware of their pet's behaviour and want to get them through what can be a difficult time for them."
He said that although sedatives had to be prescribed by a vet there were other options available, like home spray plug-in devices that spray pheromones to help calm animals.
Kate Thomas, owner of Bridgend Doggy Day Care, said she would open her doors to dogs to enjoy a quieter Bonfire Night.
The 22-year-old said it was usually a stressful evening and she found most of the dogs were terrified by the sound of fireworks.
RSPCA Cymru said there were several things people could do to try to help their pets stay calm.
"You can bring pets inside, and soundproof your house as much as possible," said senior public affairs manager Billie-Jade Thomas.
She added that people could also use a radio or TV to drown out the noise of bangs and whizzes. 
Dr Davies said he would like to see more regulation on the sale of fireworks.
"I think we push so hard in the UK to have the best rights for animals and the best welfare, and when it comes to fireworks, I think we're really letting our pets down by not putting in enough effort, research and consideration to how it affects their welfare, behaviour and stress levels," he said.
The Welsh government does not have any specific powers to control the use of fireworks.
The UK government said there were no plans to ban the sale of fireworks to the public, but it would continue to monitor the situation. 
A spokesperson said: "We are working closely with animal welfare and veterinary organisations to amplify this messaging in the run up to, and during key dates when fireworks are commonly used."
The chairman of the British Fireworks Association, Steve Raper, said further legislation was not required and current laws needed to be properly and fully enforced. 
Caerphilly, Carmarthenshire, Conwy, Denbighshire, Flintshire, Gwynedd, Isle of Anglesey, Neath Port Talbot, Newport, Pembrokeshire, Rhondda Cynon Taf, Swansea, Torfaen and Wrexham council have signed up to implement RSPCA-backed safety measures.
These include advertising Bonfire Night displays in advance, public awareness campaigns about the impact of fireworks on animals and promoting the sale of quieter or low-noise fireworks to local businesses. 
