Visa problems have forced the cancellation of the Taizhou Luantan Opera’s planned visit to Fort Wayne this month.
The opera’s time in the city, spearheaded by Fort Wayne Sister Cities, was to include performances March 18 at FAME, March 19 at Embassy Theatre and the following week at schools in Allen County.
This was to be the first time the opera had traveled to the United States.
Jenning Li, chair of the Taizhou Committee with Fort Wayne Sister Cities International Inc., said the Chinese government had approved passports earlier this year for the performers and accompanying officials. However, the U.S. Consulate in Shanghai informed them that they would not be able to obtain the category of visas they were seeking in time for the scheduled travel.
According to Li, the opera applied for B-1 or B-2 visas but were told they would need P visas instead. As listed on the Department of State’s website, the B categories are for athletes, visitors seeking medical treatment, business travelers or domestic employees. P visas are for performing athletes, artists and entertainers. Professional performances before a paying audience are not permitted on visitor visas such as the ones originally sought.
Li said P visas require a letter from U.S. immigration officials, which can take up to six months for approval. Part of the process is to guarantee that the visiting performers are not affecting the livelihood of local artists.
This is not a new policy stemming from the recent immigration ban by the Trump administration, Li said.

        
    
The style performed by the Taizhou Luantan Opera is about 400 years old. It includes colorful costumes, face paint and acrobatics.
“It’s kind of traditional Chinese entertainment,” Li said. But for people in Fort Wayne, he says this visit is a once-in-a-lifetime experience.
Sister Cities International had partnered with FAME, or the Festival for Art and Music in Education, on the visit. Together, they were responsible for providing housing, meals and local transportation for the 25 visiting musicians and two Taizhou officials, but the performers were not being paid by local organizations for their performances.
Some of the money for room and board had been raised through grants and the fall edition of the local crowdfunding campaign AmplifyArt. The visit had been in the works for three years.
Sister Cities International was discussing how to proceed, but the opera’s visit could be rescheduled for October or November with no additional fundraising likely to be needed, Li said. Availability of the Embassy and scheduling with school districts would be factors in setting a new date. Ticketholders for the Embassy show should contact their point of purchase.
Fort Wayne is marking its five-year anniversary as a sister city to Taizhou, China. Indiana itself is marking 30 years as a sister state to Zhejiang Province, where Taizhou is located along the East China Sea.
[email protected]
