Villagers on a vulnerable stretch of coast who face losing their homes to the sea could be offered new plots further inland on which to rebuild their properties.
Plans have been revealed that could see areas near Hemsby and Scratby in Norfolk designated as "rollback" land.
A public consultation on the rollback scheme will begin on 13 March.
The proposal will be used to guide planning decisions until 2041.
Great Yarmouth Borough Council's new local plan document designates an area off Yarmouth Road in Hemsby for 36 rollback plots, as part of a larger development of about 200 new homes.
The land is about one mile away (1.6km) from The Marrams - a stretch of coastline that has been badly affected by erosion and where 20 homes have been lost in the last decade. 
Several more properties have been expected to be lost by 2055.
Under the plan about 1.2 hectares of land will be allocated for the rollback homes, which will restrict the land from being used for general or affordable housing, according to the Local Democracy Reporting Service.
A report to councillors said: "This will help to address the loss of properties… but also provide an opportunity for those affected to be rehoused safely within the village."
It has been estimated that Hemsby has lost 300m of its coastline since the 1970s.
The prospects for homeowners living along the cliff edge have recently worsened following the news that planned sea defences would not receive government funding.
In December last year, five properties had to be demolished due to the risk of them collapsing into the sea after a section of cliff partially collapsed.
Homeowners were not expected to receive compensation for the loss of private property to coastal erosion. 
The eight-week consultation is expected to help inform the final local plan, which will then be assessed by the Planning Inspectorate before it is approved. 
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830.
