FOXBOROUGH, Mass. (AP) — Tom Brady now stands alone when it comes to career wins by an NFL quarterback.
Brady became the league’s leader in victories among QBs, earning his 201st by throwing for 269 yards and a touchdown to lead the New England Patriots past the struggling Los Angeles Rams 26-10 on Sunday.
Brady, who was 33 of 46, had tied Peyton Manning last week in a win over the New York Jets.
“It’s always been about winning, and I’ve been very fortunate to be on a lot of great teams,” Brady said of reaching the milestone. “I’m just really grateful.”
His lone touchdown pass came on a 
14-yard pass to Chris Hogan
 in the first quarter. LeGarrette Blount scored 
the game’s first touchdown
 , rumbling for a 43-yard, ankle-breaking score in the first quarter while spinning around safety Maurice Alexander in the process. He finished with 88 yards on 18 carries.
The Patriots (10-2) have won seven of their last eight as they prepare for a tough stretch against three teams with winning records over their final four regular-season games.
On the same day that Los Angeles coach Jeff Fisher and general manager Les Snead were given contract extensions, the recently relocated Rams (4-8) proved they still have a long way to go after losing for the seventh time in eight outings.
The Rams entered the game ranked 31st in total offense, averaging just 295 yards per game. Those struggles continued Sunday. They managed just 25 yards in the first half, the fewest by a team in a game this season.

        
    
Los Angeles was outgained 402-162 for the game.
In his third career start, rookie Jared Goff was picked off twice, completing 14 of 32 passes for 161 yards.
“That’s a record that I don’t think will ever be broken. He’ll continue to build on it, I’m sure.” — Blount on Brady’s wins mark.
“I kind of made a point to watch his first drive.” — Goff on watching Brady, whom he congratulated postgame on setting the wins record.
RAMS FUTILITY: How bad was the Rams’ offense in the first half? The Patriots had more fourth-down conversions (two), than the Rams had total first downs (one). New England had 12 total first downs. Los Angeles also ran just 18 offensive plays, compared to 42 for the Patriots.
FORCING TURNOVERS: After not forcing a turnover for 44 straight possessions, with interceptions by cornerback Malcolm Butler in the first quarter and linebacker Kyle Van Noy in the third marked four takeaways for the Patriots’ defense over the past two games.
BIG FOOT: Rams P Johnny Hekker had a 76-yard punt in the fourth quarter. It was his third punt this season of 75 or more yards. He had boots of 75 and 78 yards last month against the Panthers and Jets.
Rams: CB E.J. Gaines sustained quad injury in the second quarter.
Patriots: WR Danny Amendola left late in the third quarter with an ankle injury and did not return. He was later spotted walking on crutches in the tunnel underneath Gillette Stadium. CB Eric Rowe also did not return after leaving with a hamstring injury.
Rams: Host the Falcons on Sunday.
Patriots: Host the Ravens next Monday night.
Follow Kyle Hightower on Twitter at: 
http://www.twitter.com/khightower
For more NFL coverage: 
http://www.pro32.ap.org
 and 
http://www.twitter.com/AP_NFL
