An animal shelter has made an urgent appeal for foster carers. 
Blue Cross Rehoming Centre in Wherstead, Suffolk, is looking for people who can care for a range of animals in their own homes. 
Fosterers provide temporary care for pets who may be struggling with kennel life or are adjusting to people. 
Centre manager Charles White said: "The more fosterers we can get, the more we're able to assist with as many animals as possible."
Mr White said that the shelter would speak to anyone willing to offer their help and would match carers with pets based on individual circumstances. 
"As an organisation, the Blue Cross are completely non judgmental and we like to make sure that everyone has the opportunity to be able to have an animal - that goes for our fosterers, too," he said. 
"Some people make ideal fosters because they can't actually have an animal for their long term commitment, but they can deal with something for a few weeks at a time."
While cats and dogs are always the first on people's minds, Mr White said the centre is looking for carers for their small animals too, including rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters and chinchillas. 
"We've got an inordinately large number of animals waiting for our assistance and any foster carers that we can open up those options to would be absolutely wonderful for us to be able to help as many of them as possible," Mr White said. 
Sharon Hall has been a Blue Cross fosterer for one year, caring for three dogs in that time. 
"You get the opportunity to look after a few different breeds. The first one we had was a massive greyhound, the second was a little pug [named] Red and Roxy was a Jack Russell," she said.
Ms Hall continued that the role has been very "rewarding", adding that "we're like the bridge to their forever home".
Blue Cross provide training for all new fosterers and supply all necessary equipment and food. 
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp 0800 169 1830
