NYON, Switzerland (AP) — Draw on Wednesday for the second qualifying round of the Champions League:
Champions Path
First Leg
July 25-26
Žalgiris Vilnius (Lithuania) or Struga (North Macedonia) vs. Galatasaray (Turkey)
Ballkani (Kosovo) or Ludogorets (Bulgaria) vs. Olimpija Ljubljana (Slovenia) or Valmiera (Latvia)
Raków Czestochowa (Poland) or Flora Tallinn (Estonia) vs. Lincoln Red Imps (Gibraltar) or Qarabağ (Azerbaijan)
KÍ Klaksvík (Faeroe Islands) or Ferencváros (Hungary) vs. Häcken (Sweden) or The New Saints (Wales)
HJK Helsinki (Finland) or Larne (Northern Ireland) vs. Molde (Norway)
Shamrock Rovers (Ireland) or Preliminary Round Winner vs. Copenhagen (Denmark)
Farul Constanța (Romania) or Sheriff (Moldova) vs. Hamrun Spartans (Malta) or Maccabi Haifa (Israel)
Aris Limassol (Cyprus) vs. Partizani (Albania) or BATE Borisov (Belarus)
Urartu (Armenia) or HŠK Zrinjski (Bosnia-Herzegovina) vs. Slovan Bratislava (Slovakia) or Swift Hesper (Luxembourg)
Dinamo Zagreb (Croatia) vs. Astana (Kazakhstan) or Dinamo Tbilisi (Georgia)
Second Leg
Aug. 1-2
Galatasaray (Turkey) vs. Žalgiris Vilnius (Lithuania) or Struga (North Macedonia)
Olimpija Ljubljana (Slovenia) or Valmiera (Latvia) vs. Ballkani (Kosovo) or Ludogorets (Bulgaria) 
Lincoln Red Imps (Gibraltar) or Qarabağ (Azerbaijan) vs. Raków Czestochowa (Poland) or Flora Tallinn (Estonia) 
Häcken (Sweden) or The New Saints (Wales) vs. KÍ Klaksvík (Faeroe Islands) or Ferencváros (Hungary) 

        
    
Molde (Norway) vs. HJK Helsinki (Finland) or Larne (Northern Ireland) 
Copenhagen (Denmark) vs. Shamrock Rovers (Ireland) or Preliminary Round Winner
Hamrun Spartans (Malta) or Maccabi Haifa (Israel) vs. Farul Constanța (Romania) or Sheriff (Moldova)
Partizani (Albania) or BATE Borisov (Belarus) vs. Aris Limassol (Cyprus)
Slovan Bratislava (Slovakia) or Swift Hesper (Luxembourg) vs. Urartu (Armenia) or HŠK Zrinjski (Bosnia-Herzegovina)
League Path
First Leg
July 25-26
Dnipro-1 (Ukraine) vs. Panathinaikos (Greece)
Servette (Switzerland) vs. Genk (Belgium)
Second Leg
Aug. 1-2
Panathinaikos (Greece) vs. Dnipro-1 (Ukraine)
Genk (Belgium) vs. Servette (Switzerland)
More AP soccer: 
https://apnews.com/hub/soccer
 and 
https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
