Plans for 120 new Gypsy and traveller pitches across Wiltshire by 2038 have been announced.Residents are being urged to share their views on the proposals during Wiltshire Council's public consultation.Speaking at a meeting on Wednesday, cabinet member for planning, Nick Botterill, said the authority needs to meet the accommodation needs of all residents, including the travelling communities. “The ultimate aim is to bring some harmony to what has been highly divisive and contested in the past," he said.
“Wherever possible, the provision of additional pitches is on existing Gypsy and traveller sites. Elsewhere, seven potential new sites have been proposed, five of which are on Wiltshire Council land," he added. The consultation document describes delivering “well-designed sites in keeping with their surroundings”, as well as “culturally appropriate accommodation for Gypsies and travellers".The topic was described as “sensitive” by multiple councillors and residents who attended the meeting.
Mr Botterill acknowledged the "significant and profound opposition" from the public to allocate certain sites."I understand the upset that this process has generated in certain communities," he added.
Councillor Ruth Hopkinson described the plan as “way overdue”, adding that there was “an awful lot” of “misinformation and prejudice" against the Gypsy and traveller communities.Local authorities have to fulfil responsibilities regarding traveller communities, including identifying land in the “right locations to meet need through sustainable development”, and reducing “tensions between traveller and settled communities”.The consultation begins on 20 August and runs until 17:00 BST on 4 October.  The council is holding five engagement events at different locations around the county, alongside one online engagement event.If approved by the inspector, the Gypsies and Travellers Plan will be adopted in 2025. 
Follow BBC Wiltshire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
