First Minister Michelle O'Neill and Deputy First Minister Emma Little-Pengelly have sent their best wishes to King Charles III following his cancer diagnosis.
Ms O'Neill said she was "very sorry" to hear of his illness and wanted to "wish him well for his treatment".
Ms Little-Pengelly said she will keep the King and his family in her prayers.
"I would like to wish His Majesty, King Charles, all the the very best for his treatment," the DUP MLA added.
Charles, who has postponed all public duties, began "regular treatments" for his condition on Monday.
A form of cancer was discovered during his recent treatment for an enlarged prostate. 
Buckingham Palace confirmed he does not have prostate cancer but few further details have been disclosed.
The King told his immediate family of his diagnosis personally - and Prince Harry, his youngest son, is returning to the UK, after reportedly being seen at Los Angeles airport on Monday night. 
King Charles has stepped back from royal duties and begun treatment, however, he still be working on state business at home. Prince William is expected to cover some engagements on his father's behalf.
The Speaker of the Northern Ireland Assembly, Edwin Poots, was diagnosed with cancer in a similar way after a tumour in his right kidney was discovered while he received treatment for a burst appendix in 2020.
Speaking on BBC Radio Ulster's Evening Extra, he said it was great that the King was making his diagnosis public. 
"I chose, at the time, to make mine public because I knew people would be seeing me in and out of hospital," explained Mr Poots.
"I am delighted that King Charles is taking the same approach rather than people starting to speculate and making things out to be worse than what they actually were.
"Hopefully his prognosis is a positive one as was the case with mine."  
On Tuesday Prime Minister Rishi Sunak told the BBC that he was "shocked and sad" to hear of King Charles' diagnosis.
The prime minister added he is in "regular contact" with the King and is thankful the illness was "caught early".
Sinn Féin's Michelle O'Neill attended the King's Coronation last May as a mark of respect, she said.
The republican party has traditionally objected to the monarchy, particularly in relation to its role in Northern Ireland.
Sinn Féin MPs, for example, do not take their seats in Westminster partly because they are required to take an oath of allegiance to the head of the Royal Family.
However, the party's relationship to the monarchy changed dramatically in 2012 when Sinn Féin's Martin McGuinness famously shook the late Queen's hand.
There has been widespread support for the King from other politicians in Ireland and further afield. 
In a statement, Ulster Unionist Party (UUP) leader Doug Beattie offered "heartfelt wishes" to the King on the "shocking news" of his diagnosis.
Writing on X, formerly Twitter, Alliance Party leader Naomi Long said her thoughts were with the Royal Family and she wished the King "all the very best for the journey ahead".
Also writing on social media, Social Democratic Labour Party (SDLP) leader Colum Eastwood said he was "very sorry to hear" the news, adding that he hopes the King makes a full recovery.
Traditional Unionist Voice (TUV) leader Jim Allister said his party was saddened to learn of the diagnosis.
"We trust his treatment will be successful and that he will know a full and speedy recovery," he said.
A spokesperson for Irish President Michael D Higgins said he was "very sorry and concerned" to hear of the King's diagnosis. 
"The president has sent his best wishes on behalf of the people of Ireland to the King for his treatment and full recovery, as well as to Queen Camilla and his family," they added.
President Higgins was the first Irish head of state to attend a coronation.
In the US, President Joe Biden, who lost his son to cancer, said navigating a cancer diagnosis "takes hope and absolute courage", adding that he and his wife that were praying for Charles's swift recovery.
Church leaders have also extended their prayers to the King.
Church of Ireland Archbishop John McDowell said: "I was saddened to learn of the King's diagnosis of cancer and ask that the King and his family should be remembered in public prayer and in our private devotions at what will be an anxious time for many people.
"The words 'Long live the King' are no empty formula or weary cliche, but are an expression of the heartfelt desire of many people across these islands and far beyond."
