The Duke and Duchess of Sussex's charitable Archewell Foundation is back in "good standing" say US authorities, after a previous warning notice over registration.
A spokesman for the couple said the charity was fully compliant with regulators and that payments had been made promptly.
It follows an earlier warning letter from State of California Department of Justice over the registration process.
But that now has been resolved.
"All necessary paperwork had been filed by the foundation without error or wrongdoing," said a statement from Archewell.
Earlier this week a spokesman for Prince Harry and Meghan had said that all the registration documents had been submitted on time, but a cheque that had been sent had not been received.
Once Archewell had been notified of the problem, a "new cheque has been mailed", their spokesman had said.
The warning letter from the State of California Department of Justice had delivered a "delinquency notice" to the Archewell Foundation, over their registration status.
But the US state authorities now say that the "organisation is current and in good standing" with the registry of charities and fundraisers.
The issue had not been about tax filings, which a spokesman said had been submitted in full and paid on time.
Tax filings for 2022, published last year, showed Archewell had holdings of $11m (£9m) and made donations of $1.2m (£960,000) last year, including $100,000 (£80,000) for the Halo Trust, a mine-clearing charity once supported by Princess Diana.
Other funded projects included $200,000 (£160,000) for a "gender justice" project in Washington, $125,000 (£100,000) for a civil-rights charity and $100,000 (£80,000) for a project promoting responsible use of technology.
Archewell was founded when Prince Harry and Meghan moved to the US and stepped down from being working royals.
Earlier this year there was an overhaul of the couple's operation, with a new sussex.com website, under the title of the Office of Prince Harry and Meghan.
The couple have just completed a visit to Nigeria, following celebrations in the UK to mark the 10th anniversary of the Invictus Games.
