Residents have had mixed reactions to designs for Oxford United's proposed new stadium.
The football club has unveiled what its new 16,000-capacity stadium could look like at land south of Kidlington known as the Triangle.
Locals have expressed views ranging from saying it "looks quite nice" to "it's just too big for Kidlington".
The chairman of the club's supporters' trust OxVox described the building as "very clever".
The five-hectare (12-acre) site is located south of Kidlington roundabout, west of Banbury Road, east of Frieze Way and opposite Oxford Parkway Station.
The club, which has to leave its current home at the Kassam Stadium when its lease expires in 2026, has released computer generated pictures of the proposed complex.
It said its vision was to create a "sustainable sports, entertainment and lifestyle landmark".
The designs were met with mixed reactions from Kidlington residents.
Jane Shivers from Kidlington said she thought it was "a dreadful idea". 
"It's far too big and why on the green belt and why Kidlington?" she asked.
Vanita Sarvatta, who has lived in the village all her life, said it would be "a big change". 
"And I just think that the traffic is going to be a lot. It's going to affect us massively. Until it comes, I don't know," she added.
"I think it looks quite nice, quite modern. I haven't decided whether it's a good or a bad thing," said one resident who had seen the designs.
Andrew Cullen, who lived in the local community for 30 years, said it "looks good".
"I was thinking it would bring revenue to Kidlington. I think it's alright," he said.
"I think it's just too big for Kidlington. I don't think it's going to fit in well," another resident said.
"It's going to make traffic way worse. If they add more buses, yes, but what we currently have won't be enough."
Paul Peros, chairman of the supporters' trust, said there was "a lot of evidence" that getting no more than 10% of fans to a game without car use could be done. 
"You look at Brighton, for example, with the Amex Stadium. They're at under 15% and they started a long time before us," Mr Peros said.
"It's a very clever building, I like the way it's broken up... There's very little I personally would change."
David Robey, chair of Kidlington Parish Council, said that there would be benefits but the congestion issues would be "very serious".
"The county council's solution is to get people out of their cars to the game," he said.
"In the longer term they probably will and they probably have to.
"But the short and medium term prospects of traffic congestion are really very frightening."
BBC Radio Oxford's Sports editor Jerome Sale said that fans might "imagine themselves, finally, sat in a stadium to be proud of" but there were still "understandable and reasonable concerns about traffic and parking".
The public are invited to provide feedback at an exhibition at the Holiday Inn Oxford, on the Peartree Roundabout, until 21 October.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk.
