Councillors have given a "reluctant" green light to plans to build an extra 100 homes near a small Somerset town.
Langport Land Value Alliances put forward plans to deliver the new homes north of the B3153 in Huish Episcopi.
The application was one of more than 50 projects submitted for the former South Somerset area, now Somerset Council, which was delayed by the ongoing phosphate crisis. 
Somerset Council's planning committee voted unanimously to back proposals.
Councillor Henry Hobhouse said: "We are unhappy, but there's nothing we can do about it."
The planning committee voted on 19 December having received assurances a substantial part of the properties would be affordable and the residents prioritised, reported the Local Democracy Reporting Service.
The council's education officers have requested developers contribute nearly £1.2m towards local education and NHS Somerset has requested more than £50,000 towards the expansion of Langport Surgery. 
Under the South Somerset Local Plan, running till 2028, Langport and Huish Episcopi between them were expected to deliver 374 new homes - a target which has already been met.
According to Huish Episcopi Parish Council, 465 new homes have been approved and built within the two parishes during the current Local Plan period. 
Langport resident Val Saunders said: "I remain unconvinced of the need of dense developments of this nature in rural areas."
Under normal planning guidelines, 35 per cent of the new homes within the site will be affordable.
But Megan Rossiter, housing manager for the Abri housing association, indicated her company would acquire the site if permission was granted and ensure every home on the site was either sold or rented at an affordable rate. 
The council's planning officers clarified affordable homes delivered on the site would be offered to local residents using a "cascade" approach, where those with the strongest local connection and most urgent need being offered the properties first.
Abri is expected to bring forward a reserved matters application, detailing the design and layout of the housing early in the new year. 
Follow BBC West on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: bristol@bbc.co.uk 
