The fate of three men accused of murder is unclear after a jury error as the verdict was being given.
Confusion at the Old Bailey arose when the jury forewoman stated they were not guilty, but later admitted she had meant to say no verdict had been reached.
The men, accused of murdering Adrian Keise near Waterloo station, remain in custody a day after the error was made.
Their defence barrister now fears his clients are being held illegally. 
The trial of the three accused men had been expected to conclude on Wednesday, but the jury has remained unable to reach a verdict.
The prosecution has now been given seven days to consider whether or not to seek a retrial in the case.
Defence barrister Kerim Fuad KC says he is "extremely troubled" by what happened.
The family of 32-year-old Mr Keise, who was fatally injured in the early hours of 29 October 2022, left court tearful and shaken.
Brothers Paul and Matthew Yusuff and their friend Moussa Traore, all from south London, are charged with murder.
The jury of 11 men and women had deliberated for 10 hours and 46 minutes, before being called back into court for what was expected to be a majority verdict.
The forewoman was twice asked by the court if verdicts had been reached on which they all agreed, before she stated the defendants, from south London, were not guilty.
Soon after the jury was discharged however, Judge Charles Gratwicke received a note indicating a mistake had been made, forcing him to reassemble the court.
The judge questioned the forewoman about what happened and she admitted her mistake in saying the jury had reached a unanimous verdict when it had not. 
The judge then told jurors he would accept a verdict on which at least 10 agreed and told them to resume deliberations.
But the jury was discharged for a second time after deliberating for a total of 12 hours and 44 minutes, having still been unable to reach a verdict.
Judge Gratwicke was told they had been unable to agree on verdicts in relation to murder and manslaughter.
They had, however, reached a unanimous verdict that Paul Yusuff was not guilty of possessing a blade or point - a charge the other two men still also face.
Mr Fuad has now expressed concern that his clients could now be being detained illegally.
The defendants deny all the charges against them.
Follow BBC London on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hellobbclondon@bbc.co.uk
