Lansing – For days, dozens of young women have stepped up to a podium in the Ingham County Circuit Courthouse and bared their souls about some of the darkest days they experienced after being sexually assaulted by serial pedophile Larry Nassar.
They spoke about the times that Nassar hurt them, mostly when they were young and innocent, and also the emotional fallout that still continues in their lives. They lashed out at Nassar, and also chided Michigan State University and USA Gymnastics for failing to protect them.
But they also shared their life-affirming journeys on their roads to recovery, even though their dreams were interrupted by one man who caused pain to so many.
For Kalamazoo resident Sterling Riethman, she struggled for a long time like others to accept that she was a survivor of sexual assault. But through a process, she came to understand how she was blindsided by Nassar’s reputation and the promises to treat her injuries even though his actions were criminal.
As she stood before Judge Rosemarie Aquilina, Riethman said her story on Wednesday is only part of her story.
“Here we are, re-telling the past, explaining our present, and working towards a better future,” Riethman said. “We stand here today amongst all of you, providing brief looks into our long process of healing and the systems that failed us, so that little girls tomorrow won’t have to do the same. Our words today are simply the start. They are merely excerpts we’ve pulled from an otherwise multi-page story, that is being added to every day.
“We will continue to write the pages of our story and the pages of history as we stand in solidarity against sexual abuse. We live the unabridged versions every day.”

        
    
More:MSU reviewing NCAA letter for response
More: NCAA opens investigation into MSU in Nassar scandal
Riethman’s comments came Wednesday on the seventh day of testimony of victims making statements about how the sexual assaults of Nassar impacted their lives. More than 150 other survivors spoke before her.
Still to speak on Wednesday: Kaylee Lorincz and Rachael Denhollander, the woman who made the police report about Nassar that lead to more than 200 other women coming forward and Nassar’s firing from MSU and conviction.
Then, Aquilina will sentence Nassar to prison for sexually abusing young athletes, mostly gymnasts, by digitally penetrating them under the guise of a medical treatment. Sometimes, their parents were in the room.
Prosecutors are seeking a sentence of 40-125 years for Nassar, 54, who pleaded guilty in November to seven counts of first-degree criminal sexual conduct. He has already been sentenced to 60 years in prison for possessing child pornography. He will face another sentence in Eaton County for three more counts of first-degree criminal sexual conduct.
In all, nine survivors were involved in the charges, but victims have continued to come forward to police.
Civil lawsuits continue to be filed by women and are now nearing 200 against Nassar, MSU and others, said Okemos-based attorneys Mick Grewal and David Mittleman. A status hearing is scheduled Wednesday in federal court in Grand Rapids.
The women’s testimonies come as a Detroit News investigation found that reports of sexual misconduct by Nassar reached at least 14 university representatives in the two decades before his arrest.
Among those notified was MSU President Lou Anna Simon, who was informed in 2014 that a Title IX complaint and a police report had been filed against an unnamed physician.
