Two men have been handed suspended sentences after stealing thousands of pounds from small businesses during a card-machine scam.Abdullah Said-Ahmed, 29, and Tahir Mohammed, 30, both from Brent, in London, admitted conspiring to commit fraud after targeting a number of businesses around Bristol's Cabot Circus between February and March 2019. Omar Said-Baker, 30, of Brent, London, also pleaded guilty to the same offences, but did not attend Bristol Crown Court for sentencing last week. A warrant has since been issued for his arrest. Avon and Somerset Police caught the men when they were travelling along the M4 in a car with false number plates. 
After searching the vehicle, officers found expensive clothing and multiple credit and debit cards, four of which were in Said-Baker's name. The trio committed fraud by telling shop workers they needed to enter their pin into card terminals when paying for goods. But instead of entering a pin, they used the cards to authorise refunds to several different bank accounts. 
Police said CCTV footage was recovered, showing how at least one man would distract the shop worker while the refunds were carried out. Said-Ahmed was given a 14-month prison sentence, suspended for 18 months, and ordered to carry out 150 hours of unpaid work. Mohammed was given a 23-month prison sentence, suspended for 18 months, and ordered to carry out 200 hours of unpaid work. 
Det Sgt Louise Sinclair, from Avon and Somerset Police, said: “These three men brazenly stole thousands of pounds from small shops and cafés.“On one occasion, they refunded more than £5,000 from an independent café.“I hope this investigation reassures small business owners that no matter how complex an investigation might be, we will do everything we can to ensure those who harm people’s livelihoods will be held to account.“I also hope this case reminds shop workers of the need to be vigilant, to not allow customers to handle PDQ machines and the importance of reporting suspicious behaviour or criminality to us.”
Follow BBC Bristol on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
