A women's festival has been cancelled, leaving some ticket-holders angry and wondering if they will be refunded.The Burning Woman Festival was due to take place from 19-22 July at Belvoir Castle, near Grantham.Organisers said they cancelled "after a relentless campaign of harassment, coupled with significant financial challenges".In an email sent to one ticket-holder, liquidators said the company "is not able to make any payments, including part or full refunds".
F A Simms said it was instructed on 8 July by the festival director to start the liquidation process.Siani Driver, from Malvern, Worcestershire, said she paid £250 for two tickets but was left "annoyed and disappointed" by the cancellation with no support in getting a refund.She said: "I'm a mum of three kids. I don't go on fancy holidays. I'm a carer for my disabled son so don't have £250 just lying around to spend on myself. "It was a real kick in the teeth, especially when it was so close [to the event]. I'd be amazed if I got my £250 back."Her friend, Jessica Cainer, who lives near Pocklington, East Yorkshire, added: "It's left a bit of a bad taste in my mouth, especially because it is a festival that touted itself as being an empowering experience for women."
Another ticket holder, who wished to remain anonymous, said she had "no idea" whether she would be refunded. She said: "I've spoken with my bank and they want me to wait until the insolvency practitioners go through their process before they will do anything."She said she had received "no communication" from the organisers.
In a statement, the organisers cited "rising costs due to pandemic disruptions, and a general increase in the cost of living" as key factors contributing to the cancellation of the event.They also said "relentless negativity" from a group of anonymous women made "continuing the event impossible".They added: "The situation escalated in mid June when the company received harassing emails from the anonymous group of women, filled with false allegations and threats to disrupt the festival. Sponsors were also targeted. "This, on top of the existing financial pressure, made it impossible to secure vital funding and resources."A spokesperson said all ticket-holders had been emailed with details of the liquidators and apologised to customers.
Mrs Driver said she paid for the tickets by debit card in instalments, with the last payment made in May. She said she contacted the organisers when two of the payments were not taken and was issued an invoice to settle the balance.
"Given that I'd paid them quite a lot of money in quite a short period of time before they declared insolvency, I was really annoyed and really felt like I've been duped because that kind of thing doesn't happen overnight - the insolvency."There's warning signs ahead of time."According to The Gazette website, which is an official public record, festival organiser Olivia Beardsmore filed for a bankruptcy order in February, a month after handing over the director title to her daughter.In a statement, F A Simms said the decision to liquidate the company came because of "insufficient funds to pay for the festival". It added efforts were made "to keep the business afloat, including salaries not taken and renegotiating with suppliers".
Follow BBC Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastyorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
