Here are five things you need to know about the coronavirus outbreak this Wednesday evening. We'll have another update for you on Thursday.
Close family members will be given the "chance to say goodbye" to loved ones dying with coronavirus "wherever possible" under new coronavirus guidelines, Health Secretary Matt Hancock has said, adding that the desire to do so was "one of the deepest human instincts".
Unfortunately today brings another grim statistic, as the number of confirmed cases across the world reaches two million - with 600,000 in the US alone - according to Johns Hopkins University. The true number is likely to be even higher, however, as levels of testing varies by country. 
Police say there have been 178,000 incidents of anti-social behaviour across England and Wales in the last four weeks - a rise of 59% on last year - with the increase likely linked to breaches of lockdown measures. More than 3,200 fines have been issued for breaching lockdown measures in England.
A film which celebrates black, Asian and ethnic minority key workers helping to tackle the coronavirus pandemic has gone viral. Its director Darren Smith says he hopes it will encourage people to "continue to be open, inclusive and tolerant" once it is over.
A 106-year-old great-grandmother, thought to be Britain's oldest patient to recover from coronavirus, was applauded by staff as she left  Birmingham's City Hospital on Tuesday after three weeks in hospital. Retired shopworker Connie Titchen said she felt "very lucky" to have "fought off the virus". 
Get a longer coronavirus briefing from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning, by signing up here.
You can find more information, advice and guides on our coronavirus page.
And you can find out how many confirmed cases are in your area here.
What questions do you have about coronavirus?
In some cases, your question will be published, displaying your name, age and location as you provide it, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. Please ensure you have read our terms & conditions and privacy policy.
Use this form to ask your question: 
If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or send them via email to YourQuestions@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in. 
Here are five things you need to know about the coronavirus outbreak this Wednesday morning. We'll have another update for you at 18:00 BST. 
The government has been accused of "forgetting" the care sector and "airbrushing" out the lives being lost. Now Health Secretary Matt Hancock is promising to test all residents and staff who show symptoms, as well as anyone moved to a home from hospital. Hear from relatives worried about elderly loved ones,read more on why testing matters so much.
New Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer is urging the government to publish an exit strategy from the coronavirus lockdown this week. That lockdown is likely to be extended on Thursday. The government is resisting giving details of what might come next, arguing it would cause confusion. 
The BBC has been speaking to firms finding it hard to access financial support measures put in place by the government. Others are struggling to get money from insurers. Chancellor Rishi Sunak said "tough times" were inevitable, but the government was "protecting millions of jobs, businesses, self-employed people, charities, and households".
The BBC has analysed official data to establish which parts of the country have been worst hit. You can also get the latest for your own area here.
Two of the world's biggest pharmaceutical companies are joining forces to work on a vaccine to stop the spread of Covid-19. The UK's GSK is teaming up with French rival Sanofi, with the hope of eventually manufacturing millions of doses. How far off could a vaccine be? Find out more.
