A bridge has reopened after being closed for six days following safety concerns. 
The £121m Herring Bridge got stuck on 13 March, causing delays for road and river users. It was shut indefinitely the next day for investigations.
Graham Plant, Great Yarmouth Borough Council's cabinet member for transport, said a new locking sensor had been fitted after one failed.
Mr Plant said a sensor had implied the bridge was locked when it was not.
"So they've had to bring in a new sensor, they've fitted it. They've done some tests in the meantime, as well and it should be opened tonight [Tuesday] for the tea-time rush."
Mr Plant said health and safety was key, and if a sensor was "telling us the bridge was not locked, we can't send people over it, cars, lorries, trucks, whatever". 
Since the bridge was closed last week for investigations, it has been raised and lowered several times. 
He added that works that were planned to be carried out on the bridge in a few weeks' time were done whilst the contractors waited for the sensors to arrive from abroad.
The council has a contract with Bam Farrans to maintain the bridge in its first year.
"It is a very complex piece of machinery. It weighs several tonnes, it is something we wanted to work from day one," said Mr Plant.
"But we have a year's contract with the contractor to run this for a year, for all these snagging issues that may arise.
"So there's no cost to the rate payer."
He added the breakdown was "frustrating" but described the bridge as a "wonderful piece of kit for the town". 
He also did not rule out any further issues arising with the bridge.
"It is one of those things, that during the course of the year you will get snagging problems with any new build," he said. 
"But that's why they're [contractors] here and why they're operating it for the course of a year, before handing it over to us."
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
