A woman has fostered more than 100 children over the past three decades and continues to care for children to this day.Lyn Hargreaves became a foster carer for Nottinghamshire County Council in 1989, shortly after moving from her home city of Manchester.The 69-year-old has now been a full-time foster carer in the county for 35 years and even inspired her partner of 20 years to do the same.Looking back on how it all began, Mrs Hargreaves, who has a daughter, said she had a "spare room" and "space in her heart" to care for more.
At her home in Arnold, Nottinghamshire, Mrs Hargreaves was caring for her disabled daughter full-time when she first thought about fostering.She said: "I saw an advert in the local paper appealing for foster carers and thought I should try it out."The house had space for more of us, so I thought, 'why not?'"She had fostered about 60 children when she met her now wife, Michelle Mee.Initially, she was nervous to share her lifestyle with someone else, but Mrs Mee said it "didn't faze [her] in the slightest".Mrs Mee is now also a foster carer alongside her wife."I have loved it," she said. "Fostering found me when I found Lyn."
The couple said that being in a same-sex relationship had never been an issue in the formal fostering process, but they had faced difficulties elsewhere.They said: "We have had parents raise concerns about us looking after their children before they know us properly."One child we fostered actually came out as gay to us, something they said they wouldn't feel comfortable doing in front of their parents."We wish more same-sex couples would foster. I think some are hesitant because they think a typical mother-and-father relationship is necessary, but it isn't."As long as you are someone who cares about children and has a kind heart, you should do it."Mrs Hargreaves has looked after children for different periods of time, some stay a few weeks and others about 11 years.
She is still in touch with some of the children she fostered, one being 33-year-old Kayleigh Ramsay, who decided to make Arnold her home after her time with Mrs Hargreaves.Miss Ramsay said: "Before I came to Lyn, I didn't know what celebrating a birthday or Christmas was. My family didn't do that."I owe her my life. I now have five children, and Lyn showed me how parenting should be. She is a role model for me and my kids."She made me who I am today."Councillor Tracey Taylor, cabinet member for children and families, said: “There is an ongoing need to recruit new foster carers who can offer children and young people in Nottinghamshire a safe and loving home in their own local communities."We welcome people from all backgrounds to become foster carers with us."Follow BBC Nottingham on Facebook, on X, or on Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2210.
