The UK is having a four-day bank holiday weekend at the beginning of June, for Queen Elizabeth II's Platinum Jubilee. 
It marks the Queen's 70th year as monarch, and starts on Thursday 2 June.
The Queen is the first British monarch to have a Platinum Jubilee. There are lots of events planned.
Thursday 2 June:
Friday 3 June:
Saturday 4 June:
Sunday 5 June:
Throughout the long weekend there will be Big Jubilee Lunches across the country. Pubs, bars and nightclubs can stay open until 01:00 BST between 2 and 4 June.
The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall will guest star in an episode of EastEnders, on BBC One on 2 June. Prince Charles and Camilla join the residents of Albert Square at their jubilee street party. 
Eight new cities have been created to mark the jubilee. The title has been granted to Bangor, Colchester, Doncaster, Dunfermline, Milton Keynes and Wrexham, as well as Douglas in the Isle of Man and Port Stanley in the Falkland Islands.
It's two days - Thursday 2 June and Friday 3 June. The spring bank holiday - usually the last Monday of May - was moved to the Thursday, and the Friday is an extra bank holiday especially for the Jubilee.
Beacon lighting ceremonies will be held in all 54 capital cities of the Commonwealth.
Australia is naming an island in its national capital, Canberra, in the Queen's honour. Aspen Island on Lake Burley Griffin will be renamed Queen Elizabeth II Island.
A map on the jubilee website allows you to search for events.
Trooping the Colour and the RAF fly-past will be visible in London from The Mall, and the edge of St James's Park overlooking Horse Guards Parade. 
The BBC will broadcast both events live, hosted by Kirsty Young and Roman Kemp, as well as the concert on Saturday Night and the Jubilee Pageant. 
Special programming also features the documentary The Crown Jewels, presented by Clive Myrie, and the Queen's Jubilee Pudding: 70 years in the Baking with Mary Berry.  
Street parties are planned as part of The Big Jubilee Lunch. Hosting a street party for neighbours and residents does not need a licence, although your local council may require you to complete an application form. 
Planting a tree is another way to mark the occasion. The Queen's Green Canopy project has already seen thousands planted.
The Queen "plans to attend" both Trooping the Colour and the National Service of Thanksgiving, but her presence will not be confirmed until nearer the time. The Queen has mobility problems and has recently pulled out of several events. 
The Duke of York and the Duke and Duchess of Sussex will not appear on the Buckingham Palace balcony for Trooping the Colour. The event is limited to members of the Royal Family who are currently undertaking official public duties. 
Senior members of the Royal Family will tour the UK over the bank holiday weekend.
Royal Family members have also been carrying out a series of tours. The Prince of Wales and The Duchess of Cornwall visited Canada in May, after their tour of Ireland in March. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge toured Belize, Jamaica and the Bahamas. 
This will be Queen Elizabeth II's fourth jubilee - she celebrated her Silver Jubilee in 1977, her Golden Jubilee in 2002 and her Diamond Jubilee in 2012.
Are you planning something charitable or trying to avoid the Jubilee completely? Contact us with whatever your plans are: haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways:
If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission. 
