A woman whose son died days after he was born has told an inquest if she had been told about the risks of a vaginal birth she "wouldn't be sitting here today fighting for justice".
Troy Brady was born in Craigavon Hospital in August 2016 and died in the neonatal unit six days later.
The inquest heard he was born in "a state of collapse". 
A pathologist told the court he was otherwise a normally developed baby with no evidence of abnormalities. 
An expert in neuropathology told the court Troy had suffered a severe amount of brain damage due to a lack of blood and oxygen supply. 
He had to be resuscitated after birth and was then taken to the intensive care unit, the court heard.
Troy was kept alive on life support for six days.
His mother Jane Brady gave evidence in Laganside Coroners' Court on the first day of the inquest.
She said she had known her baby was in the breech position in the weeks before the birth. 
She arrived at hospital after her water broke at 33 weeks and was examined by a Dr Hinds who told her the baby was still in the breech position, she said.
Asked about the birth options, Mrs Brady said Dr Hinds told her she did not need a Caesarean section and that "a vaginal delivery would be better". 
She told the inquest she was never warned of the potentially serious consequences of a vaginal breech delivery. 
Mrs Brady recalled her husband asking about the risk of head injury with a vaginal delivery of a baby in the breech position. 
She said Dr Hinds told her "no, the baby should come out easily" because he would be small at 33 weeks.
A statement from Dr Hinds, referenced during the court, maintained that the risks of a vaginal delivery, including head entrapment, were discussed with the couple and that "vaginal breech delivery was on offer" and not the doctor's decision. 
Mrs Brady told the court that she had trusted the doctors, that they had made the decision.
"I only cared about the safety of my baby, I said I didn't mind going through surgery," she said.
Mrs Brady added: "If Dr Hinds had discussed vaginal birth risks I wouldn't be sitting here today fighting for justice for my son." 
Another doctor called Dr Sharma was involved in the delivery of baby Troy.
Mrs Brady told the court that when he entered the delivery suite there was "an argument" between Dr Sharma and a midwife about the position Mrs Brady should give birth in. 
"There was conflict in the room. It felt like it went on a long time as I was in pain," she said. 
Eventually Troy's legs, torso and neck were delivered.
Mrs Brady said she felt "pulling, pulling, pulling" by the doctor. 
"Baby Troy was hanging there, just hanging there." 
Mrs Brady said she was told that Dr Sharma believed the time between the neck and head being delivered was at least six minutes. 
"It felt like forever to me," she said. 
Mrs Brady said that Dr Sharma "appeared desperate".
"He looked at my face and I could see he was desperate to remove the head," she told the court.
Mrs Brady was given an episiotomy and forceps were used to deliver Troy.
John Brady, Troy's father, also gave evidence.
"I wrote down what happened the day we buried our child. It was crystal clear in my head what happened," he said.
He was asked about his memories of baby Troy being born. 
"He was hanging down and the doctor was pulling. 100% he was pulling," he said. 
Dr Sharma maintains that rather than pulling the baby he was performing a manoeuvre to release Troy's head. 
Mr Brady was asked if it's possible that was what he was seeing and not pulling.
"No. It was shocking for me to see that happening because I was thinking 'is this how this should be done?'" he said. 
"I was waiting for someone to step in and save the day. It seemed as if no-one knew what they were doing.
"When the forceps went in it took two or three pulls and then he popped out." 
John Brady told the court after the baby was born she "kissed baby Troy before he was placed in an incubator and taken to the neonatal unit".
"Staff in the neonatal unit said to us that something went horribly wrong at the delivery and you need answers for it," he said.
The couple had a meeting with Dr Sharma, but Mr Brady said they "didn't get answers".
"I visit the grave every single day on my way home from work," he told the court
The inquest continues. 
