COLUMBIA, S.C. -- Homeowners, renters and business owners in four counties may now apply for federal disaster assistance for uninsured and underinsured damages and losses resulting from Hurricane Florence.
Dillon, Horry, Marion and Marlboro counties were designated for Individual Assistance Friday.
To be eligible for federal disaster aid, storm damage and losses from the hurricane and flooding must have occurred as a result of Hurricane Florence, beginning Sept. 8.
If you have a homeowner’s or flood insurance policy, file your insurance claim immediately before applying for disaster assistance. Get the process started quickly. The faster you file, the faster your recovery can begin.
If you cannot return to your home, or if you are unable to live in your home because of disaster damage, visit DisasterAssistance.gov, or call 800-621-3362 (800-462-7585 TTY) (multilingual operators are available—press 2 for Spanish) to determine if state, voluntary, and local organizations are in your community to address your immediate needs. You can also register via the FEMA app. Install the FEMA app, available for Apple, Android and BlackBerry mobile devices.
Assistance from FEMA may help your recovery move forward by providing grants for basic repairs to make your home safe, accessible and secure. FEMA assistance may also provide temporary help with a place for you and your family to stay while you build your own recovery plan.
Long-term, low-interest disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) to assist businesses of any size, homeowners and renters, also may be available to cover losses not fully compensated by insurance and do not duplicate benefits of other agencies or organizations. Applicants may apply online using the Electronic Loan Application (ELA) via the SBA’s secure website at DisasterLoan.sba.gov or by calling the SBA Customer Service Center at 800-659-2955 (800-877-8339 for the deaf and hard-of-hearing) or by sending an e-mail to 
[email protected]
.

        
    
The Federal Emergency Management Agency cannot duplicate insurance payments. However, those without insurance or those who may be underinsured may still receive help after their insurance claims have been settled.
Berkeley, Charleston, Dillon, Dorchester, Georgetown, Horry, Marion, Marlboro, Orangeburg, and Williamsburg counties were also designated for FEMA’s Public Assistance Program to reimburse the state and local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations for emergency protective measures (Category B), including direct federal assistance.
