A horticultural group that hit the headlines when a health and safety row broke out over its use of hanging baskets said it hoped the recent downpours would not scupper its chances to win another award.Chatteris in Bloom volunteers were told by Cambridgeshire County Council they could no longer adorn baskets on the town's lampposts until they undertook a £165 training course.However, the issue was resolved when a trained member of the Christmas lights committee came to the rescue.Anglia in Bloom judges have arrived in Fenland to cast an eye over the displays, including the infamous hanging baskets, with the winners set to be announced on 6 September.The row arose earlier this year when the council stated that because Chatteris's streetlights were connected to the power grid, the gardeners would need to carry out a new safety course to hang baskets on them - despite having done so in previous years using a local farmer and his cherry picker.The issue was settled when a resident, who had helped with the town's Christmas lights, took the course to allow the baskets to be displayed once more.
Anne Wells, chair of Chatteris in Bloom which has won Britain in Bloom awards in the past and celebrates its 20th anniversary next year, spoke about the group's chances this summer, despite the very wet start to the season."We could really do with a lot of sunshine, but hey-ho, we can't control the weather," she said."The begonias have been badly battered, their heads are drooping and we have volunteers going round trying to revive them, but we are all in the same boat with the awful weather."
Chris Durham, chair of Anglia in Bloom and chief judge, said: "We judge in all weathers - it does make it tricky when it's windy or wet, especially when taking notes."I have been impressed with Chatteris. Anyone can pay a gardener to make a stunning display, but these people have an extra ingredient - it is pride. It really shows through. "Some of the flowers have been flattened by the weather, but in general they are looking really good."
Judges will be busy inspecting other displays across the region too.Jill Hindle, chair of nearby Benwick in Bloom, said her team of 15 to 20 volunteers had faced an uphill challenge."We have been going for 10 years now, we have won a silver gilt and a gold previously, but this has been the worst weather year we can remember," she said."It has been abysmal - the weeds keep shooting up faster than we can get rid of them, but luckily the flowers and plants are looking very colourful."
Cambridgeshire County Council previously said: "It's great seeing the creative ways that communities across the county make use of streetlights with flowers and festive displays."
Follow Cambridgeshire news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830
