When Hurricane Harvey hit, Kam Franklin was holed up in her Third Ward home writing songs Her group, The Suffers, had canceled a show in Virginia to stay home with their families. So Franklin and friend Lisa Harris took to Facebook to “sing some happy songs right now ‘cause a lot of people are sad.”
They dubbed the series #harveycurfewsessions and zipped through a trio of improvised tunes: “Damn Good Day to Live in the Hood,” “Hurricane Vibes” and “I Wanna See You After the Storm.” One of them will be on The Suffers’ upcoming album.
The rest of the band was scattered throughout the city during the storm. Drummer Nick Zamora was in The Heights with a sick wife and son. Trumpet player Jon Durbin took in friends on the Northside. Percussionist Jose “Chapy” Luna and his wife welcomed a baby girl and spent several days at a hospital.
The entire Suffers family - including bassist Adam Castaneda, guitarist Kevin Bernier, trombone player Michael Razo and keyboard player Patrick Kelly - made it through Harvey with minimal damage. But they’re well aware that the recovery work is far from over.
“We have now found ourselves in a climate where there are still hundreds of thousands of people in the Houston area that have not gotten their homes fixed, that have not been able to go home, that will not be able to go home, that will have a very different holiday season this year. That are embarrassed to ask for help because of all these other natural disasters,” Franklin says. “You don’t wanna feel like a burden when you see that someone is going through more than you are.”
To that end, the soul-infused group organized With a Little Help From Our Friends, a benefit concert happening Friday at House of Blues and presented alongside Newport Folk. Proceeds benefit the Greater Houston Community Foundation.

        
    
It would have been easy for The Suffers to jump on one of the endless benefits that popped up just days after Harvey moved through Houston. But Franklin says the band was intent on taking time and planning something more thoughtful.
The lineup includes Jim James of My Morning Jacket, Shakey Graves, Wild Child, Matthew Logan Vasquez of Delta Spirit, Nicole Atkins, The Texas Gentlemen and Joshua Asante. They’ll perform festival-style mini-sets, team up for collaborations and all take the stage for a group performance to close the show.
“All these people could fill this room by themselves. It’s a beautiful thing to see what started as just an idea during the storm at my house transform into this full-on thing, “Franklin says. “It’s just been one hell of a year, between the hurricane trying to take our joy and the Astros’ World Series win.”
It’s been quite a ride for The Suffers as well, since the band blazed through a 2015 performance on the “Late Show With David Letterman.” They followed that up with nonstop touring, a 2016 album release and appearances on NPR’s Tiny Desk Concert, “The Daily Show With Trevor Noah” and “Jimmy Kimmel Live!”
It all helped push the uniquely Houston band, which formed in 2011, far beyond the confines of the city. But now comes the real test - the follow-up album.
All eight members of The Suffers were recently at studio 226 Recordings in The Heights working on last-minute tweaks for that record, due by summer. They went back and forth over a drum and keyboard arrangement.
“It gets better and better,” says producer John Allen Stephens, formerly of Houston band New York City Queens, during multiple runs through an interlude called “Charlotte.”
“Can we just listen to the drums for one second?”
Franklin hums along, scribbling in a journal.
“I’m having one of those ‘Let me Google this and make sure it’s nobody’s lyric moment,' " she says. “Lucky me, it’s nobody’s lyric.”
The band has been working on this album since last year, and Franklin calls it “a completely new representation of The Suffers.”
“I believe this record is a better representation of where we are, where we’ve grown and what we’re doing and trying to say,” Durbin says. “I just think it’s a little more accurate as to what we’ve been through. We have a better sense of who we are. We’ve gotten better at portraying how we feel.”
The record’s first single, “I Think I Love You,” debuted last month. It’s a midtempo, horn-fueled valentine in which Franklin moves expertly from cooing verses to a passionate, full-throttle chorus. She says the song was inspired by the sounds of Tina Marie, TLC, early Santana and Earth, Wind and Fire, and the album’s themes center on “calling out people that are toxic in your life” and “appreciating those people in your life that take the time to love you even though you’re being terrible sometimes.” But wherever the new music - and newfound maturity - takes the band, rest assured that Houston will remain an integral part of The Suffers’ story.
“Houston makes sense. Houston keeps us grounded. It constantly inspires us,” she says. “I feel like my story here isn’t complete, and our story here isn’t finished. It doesn’t make sense for us to leave, especially when we now have four Suffers children here in the city of Houston.
“This is where we belong. This is where we’re us at our best.”
