Hundreds of people have queued outside a new dental practice in hope of registering as NHS patients.
St Pauls Dental Practice in Ashley Road, Bristol, opened for in-person registrations on Monday. 
The practice's opening comes following a successful public campaign, after the previous Bupa Dental Care site closed.
Tara Miran from Save St Paul's Dentist campaign said: "It's very bittersweet but to me, it just points to the need across the country for NHS dentistry." 
"It's a victory but I think a lot of people should learn lessons from this," she added.
It was announced by the Bristol, North Somerset and South Gloucestershire Integrated Care Board (ICB) in 2023 that SGA Services Ltd would take over the practice after the Bupa site closed.
A care board spokesperson said: "We are pleased that NHS dental services are once again being provided in the St Paul's area and would like to thank members of the Dental Action Group and local community for their continued support throughout the commissioning process.
"We understand the frustrations in queuing to enrol at the practice and are grateful for the patience and gratitude shown towards practice staff."
Dentist, Gaye Herford, said the "loyal community is at the heart" of the practice.
Norman Stephenson, a 66-year-old teacher who has lived in St Paul's for most of his life, said he had been unable to register with a new dentist after the old practice closed.
"I'm very shocked at the situation with the dental practices, especially for people like myself - I'm a pensioner. It's diabolical," he said.
Mr Stephenson said he was unable to join the queue on Monday because of his work commitments. 
He said that he "desperately" needed an appointment and has had to superglue his broken dentures while waiting.
Councillor Amirah Cole said: "The fact that the queue is as long as it is just goes to show the need that is out there for a dentist. It shouldn't be like this.
"The most vulnerable people are being left out of this type of process and this is something that we really, really need to address. 
"There has to be other options and flexibility in the way that the registration is happening."
Carol Sherman arrived at 06:00 GMT to register and to help others, by providing updates and giving people blankets and chairs whilst they waited.
She said the practice is "absolutely crucial" to the community, especially as the cost of living continues to rise.
Ms Sherman credited the campaigners and protesters who worked to get the practice open again.
"We had nothing and we have something now. This is why we're all here," she added.
Follow BBC West on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: bristol@bbc.co.uk 
