As Britain's best-selling chocolate brand celebrates its 200th anniversary, the BBC was granted exclusive access to Cadbury's refurbished UK archive. Bosses believe it tells the firm's story like never before. "Welcome, walk this way into the heart of chocolate."Those were the words that greeted us as we stepped out of a lift at Cadbury's Bournville site. It is a particularly apt message in a village which has confectionery running through its blood.
This month marked 200 years since John Cadbury opened a grocery store selling drinking chocolate in Birmingham city centre.But it would be Bournville, four miles south, where his sons Richard and George ensured their surname would rank among the world's most recognisable. If you are one of the millions of people to have visited Cadbury World, it is a story you will be familiar with. But now, after a £350,000 investment, a refurbished archive on the site is showcasing the brand's history.
The collection of historical artefacts, documents and memorabilia now has a permanent home, highlighting the evolution of Cadbury from its beginnings in one store to international success.Archivist Sarah Foden said treasured items were previously locked away and put at risk whenever they were taken out. "We had to bring the material out, put it on display and then pack it all up again at the end of the day," she said."Doing that, you are damaging the material each time you move it." 
While the archives will not be open to the public, it is hoped people will be able to visit in small groups throughout the year, the firm says.Jaw-dropping items include watercolour books painted by Richard Cadbury, who the company claim changed the confectionery industry forever by putting pictures on chocolate boxes. 
Striking colours and designs soon became a staple of the company's offering and the archive boasts it all. There are nearly 50,000 items in total with some dating as far back as 1842."We're proud of the rich history the company has got," Ms Foden added. "It's really important to have the archives here to back that up." 
The message was echoed by Prof Carl Chinn and the Birmingham social historian spoke of the importance of the brand's story needing to be seen."To show the history of the company visually is as important as being able to read the accounts of people who worked here," he explained.So what next for the iconic firm? Duncan Cadbury, a family member and trustee of the Bournville village trust, said he believed the brand's growth and survival was remarkable. But he added it was important for the firm to keep pace with the future. That means having one eye on the planet and social issues - not least the fact people are more conscious of what they eat."The world is changing," Mr Cadbury said. "I think it's important we keep in touch with what people would like to have now." 
Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, X, and Instagram, Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
