In less than three weeks’ time, voters from across the West will be heading to the polls. And as we approach 4 July, we have been taking a closer look at some of the region’s key battlegrounds.Named after two of its biggest towns, the constituency of Thornbury and Yate is one to watch. Created in 2010, it is a target for the Lib Dems who narrowly lost this seat to the Conservatives in 2015, by just 1,500 votes.It has been held by the Tories ever since, specifically by Luke Hall, who increased his majority in the subsequent two elections by more than 12,000. However national poll trackers, based on samples of people's voting intentions, suggest there will be a drop-off in voters supporting the Conservatives.After coming second in 2017 and 2019, the Lib Dem candidate and leader of South Gloucestershire Council, Claire Young, will be hoping it is third time lucky next month. Labour meanwhile have come a distant third here, apart from in 2015 when they came fourth, behind UKIP.
Thornbury and Yate is a large, rural constituency bordering Bristol, Gloucestershire, Wiltshire and Somerset.It includes the Boyd Valley and Cotswold Edge, the villages of Alveston, Charfield, Frampton Cotterell and Westerleigh, as well as the market town of Chipping Sodbury.As a result of changes to parliamentary boundaries, the constituency has been expanded and now includes Severn Beach from Filton and Bradley Stoke, and the villages of Siston and Bridgeyate from Kingswood.The commuter towns of Yate and Thornbury are home to some 35,000 people in total. Yate is rapidly expanding and has recently had its shopping centre redeveloped, and more transport links to accommodate the population growth, including a newly-built park and ride. 
The NHS and cost of living crisis are two issues that are high on the priority list in Thornbury and Yate, where the average age of voters is 40.Locally, there are complaints about GP waiting times and queues at A&E. Locals care about the price of their groceries and bills, too.Housing issues are also being talked about. About 40% of South Gloucestershire is covered in green space. While areas like Yate are hotspots for developments, where the need for local and affordable housing is high.In Thornbury, however, many are still talking about controversial changes to the high street. Now part-pedestrianised, the changes were brought in during the pandemic under a Conservative-led local council, and kept by the current Lib Dem/Labour led administration. The new lay-out still rankles with many in the town.
Use the tool below to see who is standing in your area, including Thornbury and Yate. 
Follow BBC Bristol on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630.
