A danger to life flood warning has been issued as Storm Henk continues to batter Wales.
Dozens of homes have been deluged and hundreds left without power.
Natural Resources Wales (NRW) said the situation near the River Ritec in Tenby, Pembrokeshire, near Kiln Park caravan site, was severe. 
It said the Ritec had been rising steadily since 08:00 GMT on Tuesday, peaking early on Wednesday.
Pembrokeshire council said the A4139 Marsh Road at Kiln Park Service Station had to be closed due to flooding, taking motorist on diversions via Devonshire Drive and the Ridgeway.
NRW said: "Flooding has become very extensive within Kiln Park and there is the risk of severe disruption to the community, with significant risk to life." 
The Tafarn y Deri pub in Llanedi, Carmarthenshire had to close its doors due to flooding.
"It came up through the floor and was like a river coming through the bar - we've never seen anything like it," said manager Kathryn Hunt, who thanked locals who rallied around to help.
"We don't know when we can reopen because of the damage."
An amber wind warning was in place until 20:00 GMT on Tuesday, with power cuts and building damage possible.
Fire crews had to deal with multiple flooding incidents, including 34 homes in Isgraig, Burry Port, Carmarthenshire.
Mid and West Wales Fire and Rescue Service said crew members responded to severe flooding.
Teams were also sent to St Mary's Park, Milford Haven, Pembrokeshire, where a large amount of water was running from nearby fields.
Water diversion measures were needed to stop a small number of properties in Bronllys, Brecon, Powys, being flooded.
A further incident in Pontyates, Carmarthenshire, saw a car stuck in floodwater with people inside.
The strongest winds have been in south Wales [on Tuesday], with Mumbles Head, in Swansea, seeing gusts of 71mph (114km/h), and 60mph (97km/h) at Cardiff Airport.
There has been a lot of rain on already saturated ground, coming on top of what we have had since Christmas and throughout December, leading to flooding.
The rivers are very swollen but things are changing all the time.
The winds have peaked in south Wales so it will be less windy tonight, however it will still be breezy on the coast and we may get a rumble of thunder.
There are signs of drier and more settled conditions coming, so there is light at the end of the tunnel.
More than 400 homes in south and west Wales had power cuts on Tuesday evening but the National Grid reported restored power to all areas by Wednesday morning.
The named storm is the eighth of the season, which began on 1 September.
The amber warning for wind covered Bridgend, Caerphilly, Cardiff, Carmarthenshire, Merthyr Tydfil, Monmouthshire, Neath Port Talbot, Newport, Rhondda Cynon Taf, Swansea, Torfaen and Vale of Glamorgan. 
Meanwhile, those boroughs were also given a yellow weather warning, along with the likes of Blaenau Gwent, Ceredigion, Pembrokeshire and Powys, which ran until 21:00 GMT on Tuesday.
The Met Office said the wettest areas may have seen up to 50mm (1.9in) of rain, while coastal areas could have experienced wind speeds of up to 80 mph (128km/h).
Forecasters warned some roads and bridges were likely to close, trains and buses would be cancelled or delayed and travel times would be longer than usual.
In Pen Dinas, Aberystwyth, emergency services dealt with reports of fallen stones at the Wellington Monument.
Fencing was erected last week, to cordon the area off during bad weather, after large stone blocks were dislodged at the top of the 18m (59ft) tower.
Waterfront Winterland in Swansea announced on social media on Tuesday that it would be closing for the season "earlier than anticipated" due to the weather, and people with skating bookings would be contacted.
National Rail said heavy rain flooded the tracks between Swansea and Gowerton and between Saundersfoot and Manorbier, affecting services between Swansea and Carmarthen, and to and from Pembroke Dock.
Train services between London Paddington and south Wales were diverted, Great Western Railway said, because of flooding between Swindon and Bristol Parkway.
The Met Office said flooding of some homes and businesses was possible, in addition to power cuts and travel disruption, and urged people to only travel if necessary.
It urged people to check for loose items outside homes, such as bins, garden furniture, trampolines, tents, sheds and fences.
