VISAKHAPATNAM, India (AP) — Yashasvi Jaiswal batted through the first day of the second cricket test as India reached 336-6 at stumps against England on Friday.
Jaiswal scored a career-best 179 not out, including 17 fours and five sixes, as he anchored India’s innings after the hosts chose to bat first.
His impressive display was highlighted by the fact that no other Indian batter crossed the 40-run mark. The next highest score was Shubman Gill’s 34.
Off-spinner Shoaib Bashir, the 20-year-old making his test debut for England after having visa issues, returned 2-100 in 28 overs, while wrist spinner Rehan Ahmed took 2-61 in 16 overs.
Jaiswal added 90 runs with Shreyas Iyer for the third wicket, with Iyer out for 27. Tom Hartley, who took 
7-76 in the first test won by England
, provided the breakthrough against the run of play as Iyer was caught behind. 
Debutant batter Rajat Patidar walked in and put on 70 runs with Jaiswal for the fourth wicket. Patidar looked stable at the crease, despite the big occasion, and made 32.
Meanwhile, Jaiswal was going strong. He had reached his second test hundred – and the first on home soil – off 151 deliveries. It included 11 fours and three sixes as India went to tea at 225-3.
After play resumed, Patidar was out in an unlucky manner – he played Ahmed with soft hands, only for the ball to bounce off his gloves and into his stumps. India was down to 249-4.

        
    
Jaiswal continued his anchoring effort and settled down again to put on 52 runs for the fifth wicket with Axar Patel (27).
Patel hit four fours, but was caught at backward point for a shot too many. Srikar Bharat (17) also went while on the attack.
Jaiswal made sure to stay around until stumps with Ravichandran Ashwin (5 not out) for company.
In the morning session, Jaiswal and Rohit Sharma put on 40 for the first wicket. It was a sedate opening stand, but India lost both Sharma and Shubman Gill in the second hour of play.
Sharma was out caught at forward short leg as Bashir picked up only his 11th wicket in first-class cricket. The Indian skipper scored 14 runs off 41 deliveries, without a boundary. Gill was caught behind off James Anderson (1-30) prior to lunch.
England leads the five-test series after it stunned India by 28 runs in the first test at Hyderabad. The hosts are again missing star batter Virat Kohli, who decided to miss the first two tests for personal reasons.
AP cricket: 
https://apnews.com/hub/cricket
