WASHINGTON (AP) — Leading Democrats sharply criticized a former CIA chief on Monday for suggesting that a Senate panel’s disputed torture report was motivated by the “emotional feeling” of the senator who chairs the committee, not by a desire for objectivity.
The Senate Intelligence Committee’s report examines the CIA’s detention and interrogation program after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks.
In an appearance on Fox News over the weekend, Michael Hayden, who was President George W. Bush’s CIA director from 2006 to 2009, questioned the motivations of committee chair Sen. Dianne Feinstein.
Hayden said he motivation behind the still-classified, 6,300-page investigation “may show deep emotional feeling on the part of the senator, but I don’t think it leads you to an objective report.”
On the Senate floor, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid called Hayden’s comments condescending and claimed they were representative of a broader Republican hostility for women.
“Does this sound like a person or party that respects women?” Reid said. Of Feinstein, he said: “She has been fearless. She has been thorough and fair... She’s being too emotional? I don’t think so.”
Sen. Mark Udall, a Democrat who serves alongside Feinstein on the Senate Intelligence Committee, called the reference to Feinstein’s emotions a “baseless smear” that Hayden wouldn’t make against a man.
The report was produced exclusively by Democratic staffers. It concludes among other things that waterboarding and other “enhanced interrogation techniques” provided no key evidence in the hunt for Osama bin Laden, according to congressional aides and outside experts familiar with the document, who have spoken on condition of anonymity because the report is still classified.

        
    
And the report is also said to accuse the agency of misleading Bush and Congress about the successes of the program. The CIA disputes many of the findings.
Feinstein and other committee members voted 11-3 last week to declassify about 500 pages of the report. The CIA is reviewing those sections. The process coincides with a bitter, related dispute between Feinstein’s committee and the spy agency over dueling allegations of illegal snooping and competing criminal referrals.
Feinstein said in a statement that declassifying the review of the CIA’s post-9/11 detention and interrogation program “would ensure nothing like it happens again.” She called Hayden’s reference to her emotions “nonsense.”
“The report itself is objective, based on fact, thoroughly footnoted, and I am certain it will stand on its own merits,” Feinstein said.
Hayden could not be reached for comment. An assistant at the Chertoff Group, a consultancy founded by Bush’s former Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, said Hayden was out of town and in meetings all day.
In an interview last month with The Associated Press, Hayden said “personalities really matter” when it comes to the Senate committee’s rift with the CIA.
Udall defended the merits of the committee’s investigation.
The “study is based on an exhaustive and years-long review of millions of internal CIA and other records,” he said. “The fact that former Director Hayden questions the objectivity of the committee’s study at the same time that he freely admits that he hasn’t read it demonstrates particular gall, in my view.”
Udall said declassification would ensure a “long overdue public debate” that sets the record straight.
Associated Press writer Stephen Braun contributed to this report.
