A bar has been allowed to stay open despite a man being attacked with a wrench "and left for dead".Trouble broke out after two men had their drinks taken off them by staff at the Sky Bar in Bury on June 21, police said. The men left but were said to have returned and then another customer chased them and beat one repeatedly with the tool. A Bury Council licensing committee decided the bar could stay open as long as security and staff training was improved.
PC Peter Eccleston from Greater Manchester Police (GMP) said an off-duty member of staff had taken the men's drinks from them for drinking outside the bar during England's match against Denmark in the Euro 2024 competition.He said the men went inside and there was a confrontation.A customer was knocked out with an advertising board and a female member of staff was punched in the face. The men were chased off by one of the bar's customers who was armed with a large wrench from behind the bar, the police officer said. PC Eccleston added the victim was hit about eight times, suffered a broken jaw and lost several teeth.He said the incident "could easily have ended in a fatality". "The wrench [was] used to beat very severely one of the initial two fellas that were ejected.“Fortunately, and I don’t know how, the man beaten with a wrench has survived."But he was left for dead in the middle of the road at Bury Interchange".
A summary licensing review was requested by GMP, which said its system had records of 57 incidents involving 31 crimes centred on the Kay Gardens venue. Councillor Imran Rizvi said the committee had intended to revoke the licence but had come to an unanimous decision to modify its conditions. "We hope this is a one-off incident," he said, adding: "Let this be a warning.”Solicitor Malcolm Ireland, representing the bar, said staff made police aware of all incidents and read out several letters of support.Mr Ireland acknowledged that no door supervisors were on duty on the night, and that it was a mistake for the wrench to be kept behind the bar.  He told the panel two workers had been sacked and barred.The panel imposed changes to the bar’s licence which included improving security and staff training.
Listen to the best of BBC Radio Manchester on Sounds and follow BBC Manchester on Facebook, X, and Instagram. You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk
