Inflation remains on target but business owners, employees and retirees are still feeling the pinch.BBC News NI visited a local café and burger van on Tuesday to assess the impact on spending.James Newell, a farmer from Ballymoney, stopped at a roadside chipvan on a break from work.He said he had noticed the cost of his preferred option, a filled soda, had increased from £3.50 to £5.00 in the past year.
"I enjoy coming down the road for a filled soda, I have been doing it for years but you notice the difference in the bill," Mr Newell said. "I understand the prices need increased because the local business' pay more bringing in the stock." UK inflation held steady in June, remaining at the Bank of England's target rate of 2%.It means the cost of living is still rising but at a rate that the central bank is comfortable with, after nearly three years of above-target inflation which has put pressure on household finances.
Ian Kennedy, who owns Ollies Roadside chip shop, said despite inflation remaining at a steady rate, customers are not seeing the benefit in their pockets.He told BBC News NI he is "taking a loss at the minute to help customers".“I value my customers and I try my best to make sure that they can afford to eat out, but if I was to increase my prices with inflation I would have no customers left,” he said.Mr Kennedy said the cost of produce such as chicken, oil and fish is “shocking”.Some Ballymoney residents told BBC News NI they are still feeling the pinch.
Up the street in the Sizzlin Sausage diner, the Smith family are making the most of a rare family breakfast together. Kyra Smith said, "People are struggling but everyone is more aware when we go out for dinner we just make the most of it when we can, all prices are going up your groceries and expenses."It is about spending quality time with your family within your own budget."
Retired couple Margaret and Thomas McKee said the cost of fuel was the biggest jump in their monthly expenses.Ms McKee said: "We used to go to different places all the time, but now we would not bother this is a treat we can now afford once month." “We used to pay £100 for fuel, now I pay maybe £140,” Mr McKee added.“It’s an extra 30 to 40 pence per litre, but it makes a massive difference."He told BBC News NI that small increases can add up to a total that "people just do not have".
Tradesman Paul Doherty is a regular at the diner."We are eating on the go, we would usually go to a hot food counter or something it does work out quite expensive," he said. "We would come to Sizzlin Sausage and spend a tenner its quick, you are in and out again, but it's the same as everyone, you could not afford that every day.""After Brexit it has never came back down even if they say it has the real people do not see that money in their pocket yet."
Vicky Sanderson said being able to take her family out for a meal regularly was “unrealistic”.She told BBC News NI that she tries to replicate the experience by making "fakeaways" at home.“Prices are going up, and my mortgage has increased over £100 a month,” she said."I have seven children and I could never afford to bring them to a [café].""Everyone is struggling; we are all noticing the cost of living crisis," she added.
The latest figures showed clothing and footwear costs fell last month, while food and drink inflation had dropped sharply from the highs of recent years.Prices in restaurants and hotels rose more than a year ago though, putting some upward pressure on the headline inflation rate.
