The discovery of the bodies of a man, a woman and two young girls has shocked those living in the town of Costessey, near Norwich. What do we know about the case so far?
At 07:15 GMT on 19 January, police officers forced their way into a red-brick house in Allan Bedford Crescent after receiving a call from a concerned dog walker.
Inside, they found the bodies of Bartlomiej Kuczynski, 45, Kanticha Sukpengpanao, 36, 12-year-old Jasmin Kuczynska, and Natasha Kuczynska, aged eight.
Mr Kuczynski and his sister-in-law Ms Sukpengpanao both died of stab wounds. 
Results from a post-mortem examination showed Ms Sukpengpanao, who was visiting the house at the time of the deaths, was killed by stab wounds to her neck.
Mr Kuczynski, who was living in the house with the two girls, died of a single stab wound to the neck.
Post-mortem examinations carried out later on Jasmin and Natasha found they had also died of knife wounds to the neck.
Detectives are not looking for anyone else in connection with the deaths.
Norfolk Constabulary has referred itself twice to the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) in connection with the case.
Police were in touch with the family on 14 December after Mr Kuczynski was briefly reported missing. 
When he was found later that day, Mr Kuczynski was taken by police to the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital.
The hospital said he discharged himself after being assessed as having "mental capacity".
Mr Kuczynski was known to the Norfolk and Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust, which provides mental health services across the two counties.
Caroline Donovan, its chief executive, said the trust would carry out a serious incident review.
"We will be undertaking our own full externally-led serious incident review to ensure any learning is identified and, of course, work with partners to collaborate with any external investigations," she said.
"We absolutely want to be open and transparent but we need to balance this with the needs of family.
"We want to reassure our community that we are committed to supporting the police in understanding the circumstances surrounding these tragic deaths."
At 06:00 on the day of the deaths, Mr Kuczynski dialled 999 and said he was confused and worried about his own mental state.
He was advised to seek medical advice, the IOPC said.
Officers were not deployed to the house.
On January 22, Norfolk's Police and Crime Commissioner, Giles Orpen-Smellie, said he would be holding Norfolk's Chief Constable, Paul Sanford, to account "robustly for the actions of his officers and staff".
"I am clear that the residents of Norfolk must be able to depend on the effective working of the 999 system."
The deaths have shocked people in the town.
Pupils have been offered support at the two local schools attended by the girls.
In a joint statement, Matthew Cross, the head teacher at Queen's Hill Primary, and Dr Roger Harris, the head teacher at Taverham High School, said: "Both our schools have worked closely alongside colleagues from Norfolk County Council's Critical Incident Support Team over the weekend to ensure we have extra support and provision in place, so we can meet the needs of both our pupils and staff at this difficult time."
Dr Bianca Finger-Berry, the critical incident lead at the county council, said: "Normal routines with opportunities to access additional services can be really helpful."
Floral tributes, and two unicorn toys, were left a short distance from the house.
Addressing Jasmin, one of the tributes said: "You were such a sweet, caring girl, yourself and your sister didn't deserve to have your lives taken away."
An inquest into the deaths of the girls was opened by the area coroner Samantha Goward on Wednesday, 31 January. She broke down in tears as she read out details about the girls' injuries. The inquest was adjourned until April.
The IOPC investigation into Norfolk Constabulary's handling of the matter is likely to take months to complete.
The next of kin of those who died are being supported by specialist officers. 
Follow East of England news on Facebook, Instagram and X. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp  0800 169 1830
