Prince Charles has described Russia's invasion of Ukraine as a "brutal aggression," as he visited Southend-on-Sea.
The Essex resort has become England's 52nd city, in an honour bestowed by the Queen following the fatal stabbing of MP Sir David Amess in October.
The prince said what happened to Sir David was "an attack on democracy".
"We are seeing those same values under attack today in Ukraine in the most unconscionable way," he added.
It was announced Southend would become a city after Sir David's death. The MP had campaigned for the status for decades.
Sir David, who had served as Conservative MP for Southend West since 1997, was stabbed to death during a constituency surgery at Belfairs Methodist Church in Leigh-on-Sea, Essex.
The prince, accompanied by the Duchess of Cornwall, also recalled a visit to Westcliff-on-Sea in 2014 where he and his wife met Sir David - and remembered the late MP's passion for making the then town a city.
He said: "During that visit we recall our conversation with Sir David Amess. I knew him of course as a renowned and respected parliamentarian and effective campaigner on many national and local issues. Among them was his passionate determination to secure city status for Southend. 
"Today we mark the culmination of that dedicated campaign."
He added: "How we all wish we could celebrate the occasion without the shadow of the dreadful event that took the life of such a devoted public servant."
Lady Julia Amess has been given the freedom of the city on behalf of her late husband.
In a statement read by former MP Ann Widdecombe, Sir David's family said: "Despite a traumatic and tragic journey we have arrived at the city of Southend-on-Sea. How thrilled our husband and father would have been to know Her Majesty the Queen has bestowed such a huge honour to the people of Southend -on-Sea in his name. A dream come true."
"So on his behalf, we the family wish to say thank you to the amazing people in the community who have achieved so much for Southend - this is your day."
She added: "We are all very proud of David and deeply honoured to accept the freedom of the city on his behalf. The very first freedom of Southend-on-Sea ever bestowed.
"A moment in history and a recognition of his love for Southend-on-Sea and its people. 
"We are of course filled with sadness he is no longer with us but his legacy is huge and we are so grateful to have had him in our lives and know he will never be forgotten."
Mayor Margaret Borton said Southend-on-Sea was hugely honoured to receive a visit from Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall "on what is sure to be a momentous day for our new city."
At the start of the meeting conservative councillors Tony Cox and John Lamb, who supported the motion to posthumously give Sir David the freedom of the city, said it was a moment he would have loved. 
Mr Cox said: "One person was responsible for Southend becoming a city and that was Sir David Amess, just as he was responsible for many great things that happened in his time representing Southend West for over 20 years."
"He worked tirelessly for this, as befitted his status as Mr Southend, but what we would all have preferred is to have him here today, proud of this momentous accolade, helping to shape Southend's future and celebrating city week."
Mr Lamb added: "There you are David, you made it, well done." 
Councillors also voted to change the name of the authority from Southend-on-Sea Borough Council to Southend-on-Sea City Council. 
Following the meeting Charles and Camilla visited the seafront to unveil a new eco-friendly pier train named after Sir David.
The battery-powered trains will take visitors from the shoreline to the end of Southend Pier, which at 1.33 miles (2.14km) is the longest pleasure pier in the world.
Hundreds of people gathered to welcome the prince and his wife, with shouts of "welcome to Southend" reverberating around the pier area as they met with members of the public. 
Local resident Lorna Thompson said she came to see Prince Charles and mark Southend's new status. 
"I have lived here since 1966 so I have to come out to celebrate city status. I'm an older person now but for the next generation they can think about what they would like to do and achieve and we have to be there to support that."
Yvonne Weaver, who lives in the city, said: "I'm excited Southend is becoming a city, of course it's nice to have a visit from royalty as well. 
"It's sort of heart wrenching as well to know he [Sir David] fought for so long for Southend to become a city. It's bitter-sweet."
Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk
