An MP has called for a review of rules allowing broadband companies to install poles without going through the normal planning process.
Beverley and Holderness MP Graham Stuart said people were "fed up with the poles nightmare".
He also called for a "code of conduct" preventing poles being erected "in egregious places" such as "in front of peoples' front rooms". 
The government said it invited MPs to "discuss steps to address" the issue.
Mr Stuart said his letter to Digital Infrastructure Minister Julia Lopez "laid out five demands regarding the ugly and unnecessary telegraph poles, which have blighted Hedon since September and Beverley since December".
He said the poles had been erected by MS3 and Connexin where infrastructure owned by KCOM already exist and urged the Department for Science, Innovation & Technology to "remind KCOM of its responsibilities to provide fair access to its ducts". 
A statement on Mr Stuart's website said: "He has requested a review into permitted development, which is what allows the poles to be erected. 
"Graham contends that while poles could be appropriate in areas where there is no economic case for ducts, in areas where they already exist sharing of infrastructure should be the only available option to network builders."
The MP also wants the code of conduct in the Electronic Communications Code to become mandatory, claiming the current system does not incentivise companies to engage with people affected by installations. 
"It's disappointing that the situation hasn't changed since September last year," said Mr Stuart. 
"Most residents don't want to see these poles close to their front gardens, even if they are desperate for cheaper broadband bills." 
KCOM has said it has never put obstacles in the way of companies seeking to use its infrastructure and it was assessing a request from Connexin as of January.
That was in response to rival companies, including Connexin, claiming obstacles including uneconomic prices for using the infrastructure meant they had to put up poles.
Minister for Data and Digital Infrastructure Julia Lopez said she was yet to receive Mr Stuart's letter.
In a statement, she said: "We are aware of public concerns around the use of broadband poles and that's why I have today invited MPs to discuss steps to address them. 
"We want all operators to share the use of existing infrastructure wherever possible and have already made a number of changes to the law to make it easier for them to do so. This includes allowing operators to fly lines from poles owned by other providers and sharing underground ducts."
She said there was "a code of practice" already in place providing guidance for installers.
Meanwhile, East Riding councillors called for works to be halted while Ofcom conducts a review into the local telecommunications market ahead of a routine one scheduled for 2026, according to the Local Democracy Reporting Service. 
It is understood Ofcom is currently weighing up the authority's request and is set to respond in due course.
Follow BBC East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastyorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
