BISMARCK, N.D. (AP) — Backers of a petition drive to term-limit North Dakota legislators are pushing back against its rejection by the secretary of state’s office, saying more than 29,000 signatures were unlawfully and unconstitutionally disqualified.
Secretary of State Al Jaeger last month said a review by his office and the state Bureau of Criminal Investigation found the petitions were riddled with violations, including signatures that were “likely forged” in the presence of a notary public. The review also found petition workers who were paid bonuses based on their production, and a “significant number” of signatures from residents of other states. Some people who circulated petitions were not citizens of the United States, Jaeger noted.
“As a result, I cannot certify it for placement as a measure on the November ballot,” Jaeger said in a letter to Jared Hendrix, chairman of the sponsoring committee.
Attorney General Drew Wrigley said Wednesday that his office is still deciding whether to pursue legal action against the group.
A letter submitted by attorneys hired by the term limits committee argues that there is no factual or legal basis to disqualify nearly 63% of the signatures submitted.
“The secretary of state is charged with protecting the rights of North Dakota voters yet has purposefully and unlawfully denied residents the ability to place term limits on the November 2022 ballot,” Hendrix wrote in a statement.

        
    
Hendrix would not say if the group would sue the state.
“We’re going to keep all options on the table,” Hendrix told The Associated Press on Wednesday. ‘They’ve got a real problem on their hands trying to revalidate what they’ve done.”
The measure’s 42-member sponsoring committee includes several state lawmakers linked to the ultraconservative Bastiat Caucus, as well as multiple new GOP district chairmen.
The initiative sought to add a new article to the state constitution imposing term limits of eight cumulative years each in the House and Senate. The governor could not be elected more than twice. Term limits would not be retroactive, which means the service of current officeholders would not count against them.
Citizen initiatives allow residents to bypass lawmakers and get proposed state laws and constitutional amendments on ballots if they gather enough signatures from voters.
Jaeger has said backers submitted about 46,000 signatures, or more than the 31,164 signatures needed to put the measure to voters in November. The petitions contained 46,315 signatures, which Jaeger whittled down to 17,265 after throwing out the invalid names. The errors with the notary negated 15,777 signatures. Mistakes like leaving out a first or last name, obtaining signatures before the petition was approved, failing to print their names, and the bonus payment offerings eliminated 10,614 signatures.
