SEATTLE (AP) — Jordan Eberle scored three goals in a 9:41 span in the second and third periods for the first hat trick in Seattle franchise history and the expansion Kraken beat the Buffalo Sabres 5-2 on Thursday night. 
The loss capped a long, emotional day for the Sabres that began with the trade of former captain Jack Eichel to the Vegas Golden Knights and ended with Buffalo’s third straight loss on its West Coast swing.
Eberle had his fourth career hat trick to help Seattle snap a two-game losing streak. He scored his first of the night with 1:35 left in the second, stuck again at 1:50 of the third and capped the natural hat trick at 8:06.
 Morgan Geekie opened the scoring for the Kraken, Jaden Schwartz had two assists and an empty-net goal, and Philipp Grubauer made 19 saves. 
Kyle Okposo and Tage Thompson scored for Buffalo. Dustin Tokarski made 33 saves.
MONTREAL (AP) — Brock Nelson scored a career-high four goals to help New York beat Montreal.
Playing the eighth of 13 straight road games to open the season while their new arena is finished, the Islanders scored more than four goals for the first time this season. Montreal allowed five goals or more for the sixth time this season.
Oliver Wahlstrom and Jean-Gabriel Pageau also scored to help the Islanders improve to 4-2-2. Anthony Beauvilier had three assists, and Ilya Sorokin stopped 36 shots.
Canadiens starter Jake Allen allowed five goals on 25 shots and was pulled following New York’s four-goal second. Samuel Montembeault stopped all 10 shots he faced.

        
    
Nick Suzuki and Tyler Toffoli scored for Montreal. The Canadiens are 3-9-0.
BOSTON (AP) — Patrice Bergeron scored his first four goals of the season, Brad Marchand had four assists and Boston beat Detroit.
Marchand assisted on all four of Bergeron’s goals, Mike Reilly scored his first of the season and Charlie McAvoy had a pair of assists for Boston. Jeremy Swayman finished with 14 saves for the Bruins.
Lucas Raymond scored for Detroit on a 5-on-3 power-play in the third period.
SUNRISE, Fla. (AP) — Eetu Luostarinen scored 1:55 into overtime and Florida beat Washington for its best 10-game start at 9-0-1.
Luostarinen’s centering pass went off a Capitals player and into the net, moving the Panthers. The previous best 10-game start was 7-0-3 in 1996-97.
Florida’s Aleksander Barkov scored two goals, raising his career total to 188, tied with Olli Jokinen for the most in franchise history. Aaron Ekblad had a goal and assist, and Brandon Montour also scored for Florida. Spencer Knight stopped 25 shots after entering the game to start the second period. Sergei Bobrovsky stopped all 13 shots he faced before leaving after the first period with an upper-body injury. 
Alex Ovechkin scored his 10th goal of the season and had two assists for Washington. Connor McMichael, Tom Wilson and Daniel Sprong also scored for the Capitals. 
TORONTO (AP) — William Nylander scored on a power play at 3:43 of overtime to lift Toronto past Tampa Bay.
John Tavares tied it for Toronto with 41.1 seconds left in regulation and goalie Jack Campbell off for an extra attacker. In overtime, Tavares was slashed on a breakaway by Lightning captain Victor Hedman, and Nylander scored his team-leading fifth goal of the season on a one-timer.
Campbell made 24 saves, and Auston Matthews and Mitch Marner each had two assists. Toronto improved to 6-4-1 with its fourth straight victory.
Patrick Maroon scored in the first period for two-time defending champion Tampa Bay, and Andrei Vasilevskiy made 32 saves. The Lightning dropped to 5-3-2. They had won three in a row.
OTTAWA, Ontario (AP) — Jonathan Marchessault scored twice and Vegas beat Ottawa Senators 5-1 to cap a busy day.
In the morning, Vegas acquired injured forward Jack Eichel in a trade with the Buffalo Sabres. Eichel will have artificial disk replacement surgery soon.
Mattias Janmark, Brett Howden and Alex Pietrangelo also scored for Vegas, and Robin Lehner made 38 saves against his former team. Brady Tkachuk scored for Ottawa, and Filip Gustavsson stopped 35 shots.
PITTSBURGH (AP) — Kris Letang stuffed a wraparound past Carter Hart 1:57 into overtime to lift Pittsburgh past Philadelphia.
Playing in his first game since Oct. 19 following a bout with COVID-19, Letang helped the Penguins end a three-game losing streak on a night they played without star center Sidney Crosby and head coach Mike Sullivan. Crosby tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday and Sullivan joined him just hours before the opening faceoff. Assistant coach Todd Reirden directed the team in Sullivan’s absence.
Tristan Jarry stopped 36 shots for Pittsburgh. Brock McGinn and Jake Guentzel also scored for the Penguins. Travis Konecny and Scott Laughton scored for Philadelphia, with Laughton tying it with 2:52 left in regulation.
SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) — Brandon Saad scored twice in his second game back from the COVID-19 list and St. Louis used a three-goal second period to beat San Jose.
Saad scored a short-handed goal in the first period and tied it in the second with an even-strength goal as he looked back up to speed after four games following a positive test for COVID-19. 
Pavel Buchnevich and James Neal also scored, and Robert Thomas sealed it with an empty-netter. Joel Hofer won his NHL debut, making 23 saves.
Brent Burns, Logan Couture and Nick Merkley scored for the short-handed Sharks, who have seven players on the COVID-19 list. Adin Hill made 23 saves.
CALGARY, Alberta (AP) — Jamie Benn scored at 2:59 of overtime in Dallas’ victory over Calgary.
Benn took a drop pass from Joe Pavelski and sent a shot just inside the goal post and past goalie Jacob Markstrom.
Denis Gurianov, Blake Comeau and Tyler Seguin also scored, Miro Heiskanen had three assists, and Anton Khudobin made 30 saves. Dallas snapped a four-game winless streak to improve to 4-4-2.
Milan Lucic, Matthew Tkachuk and Nikita Zadorov scored for the Flames, and Markstrom had 24 saves. Calgary is 6-1-3, earning points in nine games in a row.
