A Conservative MP has said he will stand with local residents in opposing Home Office plans to convert a former RAF base into an asylum centre.
Sir Edward Leigh spoke out after a High Court hearing over plans to house up to 2,000 migrants at RAF Scampton.
"We should be considering this on its merits, and there are no merits in the proposal," the MP for Gainsborough told the BBC.
"We should not be arguing about arcane legal points." 
During the two-day hearing in London, the government defended its use of emergency planning laws to build accommodation for asylum seekers at two former RAF bases.
Home Office officials say work to convert RAF Scampton, in Lincolnshire, and RAF Wethersfield, in Essex, is covered by the Class Q powers.
Sir Edward said: "I've constantly argued there is no emergency - this has been going on for years.
"Class Q is supposed to be for a national emergency," he said.
Campaigners have staged a number of lawful protests over the plans for the ex-RAF station while Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said it would be "disrespectful" to use the site as an asylum centre without the consent of the local community.
Sir Edward said: "I'm the local Member of Parliament and it's not for me to be a creature of the government when my constituents are being treated in this way.
"My job is to stand up for my constituents, and if that means standing up against a Conservative government then I shall do it, and I shall call them to account without fear or favour."
Commenting on the possible outcome of the High Court hearing, Sir Edward added: "It's very difficult to beat any government in this sort of case because, ultimately, they can use emergency legislation to get their way.
"For instance, if they lose this case, they can use a Special Development Order (SDO) by which they simply overcome the entire planning process."
Asked about the plan to use an SDO, a Home Office spokesperson said: "Delivering accommodation on surplus military sites provides more orderly, suitable accommodation for those arriving in small boats while reducing the use of hotels.
"We understand the concerns of local communities and are liaising with councils and local services to manage the impact of using these sites on a temporary basis."
However, Sir Edward said: "They have a determination to override local democratic control, local people, local council, and they will use any means they can to get asylum seekers in here.
"There is a real suspicion that once these asylum seekers arrive, they won't leave."
In March, West Lindsey District Council agreed a £300m deal with Scampton Holdings Limited to revive the site as a business, aerospace and heritage centre.
Sir Edward said he was concerned the "site might start deteriorating" if the asylum centre plans went ahead and Scampton Holdings "might give up".
Oliver Wheeldon, co-director of Scampton Holdings, acknowledged that if the verdict favoured the government, reaching a mutual agreement with the Home Office would be the preferred alternate course of action, according to the Local Democracy Reporting Service.
Sir Edward said he intended to meet with the Immigration Minister Robert Jenrick to discuss the matter.
"If we lose this case, I still hope they give us some kind of compromise," he added.
Follow BBC East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk
